===== PAGE 1 =====
New Mexico Department of Health 
Proposed Adoption of the New Rule 7.35.2 Medical Psilocybin 
Producer and Laboratory Requirements 
Hearing Date: April 24th, 2026 
 
 
LIST OF EXHIBITS  
1. New Chapter Approval 
7.35.2 NMAC Medical Psilocybin Producer and Laboratory 
Requirements 
2. Proposed New Rule 
7.35.2 NMAC Medical Psilocybin Producer and Laboratory 
Requirements 
3. Notice of Public Hearing 
4. Affidavit of Publication – Albuquerque Journal 
5. Affidavit of Publication – NM Register 
6. Letter Appointing Hearing Officer 
7. Affidavit of Notice to the Public 
8. List of Anticipated Revisions 
9. Public Comments 
 
===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
 
1205 Camino Carlos Rey   |   Santa Fe, NM 87507   |   www.srca.nm.gov 
Hon. Raúl Torrez                                    Hon. Joseph Maestas                                 Hon. Maggie Toulouse Oliver 
                   Attorney General                                                State Auditor                                                   Secretary of State 
Debra Garcia y Griego                                                                                                                                    Stephanie Wilson          
       Secretary, Dept. of Cultural Affairs                Deputy Secretary, General Services Department                        State Law Librarian  
February 24, 2026
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL TO: Christopher Woodward, Deputy General Counsel, DOH
 
Christopher Woodward, General Counsel
Department of Health (DOH)
PO Box 26110 
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87502-6110 
 
Dear Mr. Woodward:
 
I am in receipt of your letter dated February 24, 2026, with regard to the request for the approval of new 
Chapter name. Your request is approved and this information has been recorded in the Administrative 
Law Division’s master listing as: 
 
TITLE 7 HEALTH 
CHAPTER 35 MEDICAL USE OF PSILOCYBIN 
 
If you have any questions, please contact Pamela Lujan y Vigil, Senior Management Analyst at (505) 
476-7990. 
 
Sincerely, 
Rick Hendricks, PhD 
State Records Administrator 
cc: File 
EXHIBIT 1
===== PAGE 3 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  1 
TITLE 7 HEALTH 
CHAPTER 35 MEDICAL PSILOCYBIN 
PART 2  PRODUCER AND LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS 
 
7.35.2.1  ISSUING AGENCY:  New Mexico Department of Health. 
[7.35.2.1 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.2  SCOPE:  All persons, whether natural or legal entities, that apply to transact, or that transact, 
business in New Mexico as a psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory, their owners, agents, and 
assignees.  
[7.35.2.2 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.3  STATUTORY AUTHORITY:  This rule is promulgated pursuant to the following statutory 
authorities: the New Mexico Department of Health Act, Subsection E of Section 9-7-6 NMSA 1978; and the 
Medical Psilocybin Act, Section 26-2D-7, NMSA 1978. 
[7.35.2.3 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.4  DURATION:  Permanent. 
[7.35.2.4 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.5  EFFECTIVE DATE:  xx/xx, 2026, unless a later date is cited at the end of a section. 
[7.35.2.5 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.6  OBJECTIVE:  The objective of this rule is to adopt rules governing the issuance of permits to 
producers and laboratories to operate within the New Mexico medical psilocybin program, established pursuant to 
the Medical Psilocybin Act at Sections 26-2D-1 through -11, NMSA 1978.  The rule sets standards for applications 
for producer and laboratory permits, and standards for the operations of producers and laboratories, including but 
not limited to specifying: products allowed to be sold or otherwise distributed by producers; restrictions on the 
application of pesticides and other adulterants to psilocybin products; requirements for implementation and usage of 
a department-approved traceability system; testing requirements; wastage requirements; sanitation requirements; and 
transportation requirements.  This rule also establishes a procedure for disciplinary actions to be taken against 
permits, and a process for administrative appeals from disciplinary actions and proposed disciplinary actions.  
[7.35.2.6 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.7  DEFINITIONS:  
 A. Definitions beginning with “A”: 
  (1) “Actual control” means the ability to: 
   (a) direct the policies, management, and personnel of a permittee; 
   (b) exert authority over strategic priorities, capital allocations, acquisitions, and 
divestments of a permittee; or 
   (c) control a majority of voting rights of a permittee. 
  (2) “Administration session” means the therapeutic session combined with the 
administration of psilocybin. 
(3) “Adulterate” means to use or incorporate a substance that contaminates a psilocybin 
product and that creates a risk to public health. 
  (4) “Analytes” means a substance whose chemical constituents are being identified and 
measured. 
  (5) “Appellant” means a person who requests a hearing to contest an immediate or proposed 
disciplinary action. 
  (6) “Approved location” means a location approved by the department for psilocybin 
administration sessions. 
 B. De
 finitions beginning with “B”: “Board” means the medical psilocybin advisory board. 
 C. Definitions beginning with “C”: 
  (1) “Capsule” means a small soluble pill, tablet or container that contains homogenized 
psilocybin material. 
EXHIBIT 2
===== PAGE 4 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  2 
  (2) “Certification” means an approval issued by the department to a clinician or a 
practitioner to provide medical services to qualified patients. 
  (3) “ Clinician” means an approved health care provider licensed in New Mexico who holds 
a certification from the department to provide medical services to qualified patients. 
  (4) “Compliance notification” means a notification of noncompliance with a regulatory 
requirement that is issued to a psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory. 
  (5)  “Compound” means to prepare psilocybin to tailor dosage, and includes grinding and 
powdering psilocybin mushrooms, as well as the creation of psilocybin capsules. 
  (6)  “Convert” means converting psilocybin mushrooms into a homogenized lot. 
  (7)  “Cultivation” means the growing, harvesting, drying, and handling of psilocybin-
producing mushrooms. 
   (8)  “Cultivation batch” or “batch” means a quantity of unharvested spores, fruiting body, 
or mycelium that is grown together under the same conditions, that may contain fungi that originates from diverse 
spores or mycelial tissue. 
 D. Definitions beginning with “D”:  “Department” means the department of health. 
 E. Definitions beginning with “E”:  “Expiration date” means a date determined by a producer 
after which an associated psilocybin product will not retain optimal quality. 
 F. Definitions beginning with “F”: 
  (1) “Facility” means any building, space, or grounds licensed for the cultivation, harvesting, 
drying, storage, or preparation of psilocybin-producing fungi or psilocybin products. 
  (2) “ Flush” means the fruiting body of psilocybin mushrooms harvested at the same time 
from a growing medium. 
  (3) “Fruiting bodies” means the spore producing organs of the fungi. 
  (4) “Fungi” is any member of the group of eukaryotic organisms that includes 
microorganisms such as yeasts and molds, as well as the more familiar mushrooms . 
 G. Definitions beginning with “G”: 
  (1) “Genuine ownership” means an ownership interest in an applicant or a permittee that is 
evidenced by record ownership in which the owner, regardless of the amount of capital or assets that the owner 
contributes to the applicant or permittee, enjoys the customary incidents of ownership and shares in the profits and 
losses of the permittee proportionate to the percentage of the owner's interest in the permit.  
(2) “Growth medium” or “substrate” means the underlying base layer, surface, or nutrient 
rich substance where fungal growth occurs. 
  (3) “Guide” an individual who has completed training and education approved by the 
department to be able to assist practitioners during the administration sessions and who has been registered with the 
department. 
 H. Definitions beginning with “H”: 
  (1) “Harvest” means to remove, collect, or gather, fruiting bodies of mushrooms containing 
psilocybin. 
  (2) “Harvest lot” means the fruiting bodies of mushrooms cultivated and harvested at the 
permitted location. 
  (3) “Homogenization date” means the date a harvest lot is homogenized. 
  (4) “Homogenized” means dried fruiting bodies that have been mixed by powdering or other 
techniques which uniformly distribute psilocybin throughout the product.  
  (5) “Homogenized lot” means a quantity of psilocybin mushrooms identified by a producer 
that is cultivated and dried under the same conditions, and harvested within a specified time period at the same 
location within permitted premises. 
 I. Definitions beginning with “I”: 
  (1) “Information notification” means a notification providing information regarding 
relevant updates and alerts that is issued to a psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory; 
  (2) “Inoculate” means the process of introducing psilocybin spores of mycelium into growth 
medium. 
  (3)  “Input” means material utilized in growing medium for growing psilocybin mushrooms, 
including but not limited to soil, grain, woodchips, water, nutrients, and other materials. 
 J. Definitions beginning with “J”:  [RESERVED] 
 K. Definitions beginning with “K”:  [RESERVED] 
 L. Definitions beginning with “L”:  [RESERVED] 
===== PAGE 5 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  3 
 M. Definitions beginning with “M”: 
  (1) “Manufacture” or “process” means to harvest, dry, compound, convert, or package into 
pills, capsules, or sachets of homogenized powder, and label mushrooms and products containing psilocybin.  
  (2) “Medical services” means services provided to a patient in an approved setting before, 
during and after the ingestion of psilocybin and includes a preparation session, an administration session and an 
integration session. 
  (3) “Mycelium” means the fungal threads or hyphae of psilocybin containing mushrooms. 
  (4) “Mushroom” is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus. 
 N. Definitions beginning with “N”:  [RESERVED] 
 O. Definitions beginning with “O”:  [RESERVED] 
 P. Definitions beginning with “P”:  [RESERVED] 
  (1) “Package” means to enclose, wrap, or seal psilocybin products. 
  (2) “Permit” means the authorization issued by the department to a person to operate as a 
psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory under this part. 
  (3) “Permit-applicant” means a person who has applied for a permit to operate as a 
psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory. 
  (4) “Permittee” means a psilocybin producer or psilocybin testing laboratory that holds a 
permit issued by the department. 
  (5) “Person” means a natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, 
association, and any other business or organization that is capable of entering into contracts, owning property, and 
suing or being sued. 
  (6) “Potency” means the level of psilocybin and analytes in a sample of a batch, lot, or 
product which is measured and expressed in metric units. 
(7) “Practitioner” means an individual who is a licensed healthcare professional who is 
certified by the department to provide medical psilocybin integrative therapy, supervise guides, and who has 
completed department required trainings. 
  (8) “Product lot” means the same type of product that has been created from a homogenized 
lot. 
  (9) “Program” means the medical use of psilocybin program. 
  (10) “Psilocybin” means the naturally occurring psychedelic compound 4-phosphoryloxy-N, 
N-dimethyltryptamine, also known as 4-PO-DMT, and its pharmacologically active metabolite psilocin, 4-hydroxy-
N, N-dimethyltryptamine, found in certain mushrooms, but does not include synthetic or synthetic analogs of 
psilocybin. 
  (11) “Psilocybin material” means psilocybin mushrooms, mycelium, and derived material 
that naturally contain psilocybin. 
  (12) “Psilocybin mushroom” means a fungus that naturally contains psilocybin. 
  (13) “Psilocybin producer” or “producer” means a person who has a permit from the 
department to grow and harvest or prepare psilocybin from psilocybin- producing mushrooms, including to 
compound, convert, process or manufacture psilocybin products directly or indirectly from psilocybin mushrooms 
and to package or repackage or label or relabel the products. 
  (14) “Psilocybin product” means psilocybin material that is intended for sale or distribution 
to a qualified patient. 
  (15) “Psilocybin testing laboratory” or “laboratory” means a facility permitted by the 
department to test psilocybin products for potency and contaminants in accordance with this rule . 
  (16) “Psilocybin waste” means: 
   (a) Partially consumed products; 
   (b) Byproducts of cultivation, harvesting, processing, or other production of 
products; 
   (c) Products disposed or to be disposed by a producer or laboratory; and 
   (d) Products designated for disposal by the department due to contamination, 
expiration, or which do not follow the requirements for production and administration.  
 Q. Definitions beginning with “Q”: 
  (1) “Qualified patient” or “patient” means a patient whose clinician has judged the patient 
to be a medically appropriate candidate for the use of medical psilocybin based on being diagnosed with a qualifying 
condition. 
  (2) “Qualifying condition” includes: 
===== PAGE 6 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  4 
   (a) major treatment-resistant depression; 
   (b) posttraumatic stress disorder; 
   (c) substance use disorders; 
   (d) end-of-life care; and 
   (e) other conditions approved by the department; 
 R. Definitions beginning with “R”:  “Recall” means to remove a medical psilocybin product from 
the medical psilocybin market by contacting persons to whom the product was sold or otherwise distributed and 
having the product returned to the producer for destruction; 
 S. Definitions beginning with “S”:  “Satchet” means a small, sealed package or pouch of 
homogenized psilocybin mushrooms. 
 T. Definitions beginning with “T”: 
  (1) “Testing sample” means the unit of psilocybin mushrooms or products being tested. 
  (2) “Traceability system” means the department-approved system that is used to track 
psilocybin mushrooms and products from inoculation to end use. 
 U.  Definitions beginning with “U”:  “Unique identification number” means the most recent 
unique number assigned by traceability for a psilocybin product that may include cultivation batches, harvest lots, 
homogenized lots, product lots, and testing samples. 
 V. Definitions beginning with “V”:  [RESERVED] 
 W.  Definitions beginning with “W”:  [RESERVED] 
 X. Definitions beginning with “X”:  [RESERVED] 
 Y. Definitions beginning with “Y”:  [RESERVED] 
 Z. Definitions beginning with “Z”: [RESERVED] 
[7.35.2.7 NMAC - N, xx/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.8  PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS: 
A. General requirements:  An applicant for a producer or laboratory permit shall provide to the 
department and shall maintain the following records: 
  (1) business license in the state of New Mexico; 
  (2) proof of registration of the business with New Mexico secretary of state; 
  (3) proof of registration of the business with New Mexico taxation and revenue department; 
  (4) certificate of occupancy; 
  (5) proof of fire code compliance; 
  (6) electrical and HVAC inspection reports; 
  (7) proof of compliance with applicable city and county planning/zoning requirements;  
  (8) proof that facility is within the geographical boundaries of New Mexico; 
  (9) proof of ownership of the facility or written approval from the owner to cultivate 
psilocybin on the premises; 
  (10) conditional use permits where applicable (e.g., city of Albuquerque raw food permit); 
  (11) an attestation that all psilocybin and psilocybin products will be produced or tested (as 
applicable to the permit type) only within the state of New Mexico and will not be transported beyond the borders of 
the state of New Mexico; and 
  (12) such additional documentation as the department may reasonably request to ensure 
compliance with this rule or other applicable laws, regulations, or ordinances.  
B. Additional producer application requirements:  An applicant for a producer permit shall 
additionally provide to the department and maintain food safety training certificates  for employees. 
C. Additional laboratory application requirements:  An applicant for a psilocybin testing 
laboratory permit shall additionally provide to the department and maintain the following records: 
  (1) A license or permit from New Mexico regulation and licensing department - cannabis 
control division with: 
   (a) Proof of current approval to operate as a cannabis testing laboratory in New  
Mexico; 
   (b) Standard operating procedures for sampling and testing of psilocybin; 
   (c) An initial demonstration of capabilities for each of the tests required by this rule ; 
or 
  (2) Proof of current ISO/IEC 17025 or NELAC/TNI accreditation, with: 
(a) Standard operating procedures for sampling and testing of psilocybin; and 
===== PAGE 7 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  5 
   (b) An initial demonstration of capabilities for each of the tests required by this rule . 
 D. Changes in location, equipment, or status:  A permittee shall apply for and shall obtain an 
amended permit prior to implementing any substantial structural modification to its permitted location.  
Additionally, a permittee shall notify the department of any change to registrations, licenses, permits, certifications, 
and any equipment alterations or acquisitions that substantially affect the production process.  
[7.35.2.8 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.9  GENERAL PERMITTEE REQUIREMENTS: 
 A. Compliance with applicable laws:  A permittee shall comply with all applicable state, tribal, and 
local laws, regulations, and ordinances, including requirements concerning agriculture, environmental health, 
building and occupancy, fire safety, zoning, and worker safety. 
 B. Dual ownership prohibited:  A person who holds an ownership interest in a permittee shall not 
hold an ownership interest in any other permittee. 
 C. Permits non-transferable:  A permit shall not be transferred by sale, assignment, or otherwise.  
A permit that is transferred shall be invalid. 
 D. Transfer of actual control prohibited:  An applicant or permittee shall not transfer actual control 
of the applicant or permittee to any person using a management, consulting, or intellectual property agreement, or by 
any other means.  A transfer of actual control shall invalidate an associated permit. 
 E. Nominee, straw, and proxy ownership prohibited:  A person shall not apply for or hold a 
permit if any ownership interest in the permit is nominal or without the benefits and risks of genuine ownership or 
control. 
 F. Record of financial interests:  Permittees shall create and maintain complete lists of all 
individuals and legal entities that hold a financial interest in the permittee or the operations of the permittee, 
including contact information for each individual or entity and a description of their f inancial interest.  Applicants 
and permittees shall provide the information required by this section to the department within 15 calendar days of 
the department’s written request for such information.  If a legal entity holds a financial interest in the permittee or 
the permittee’s operations within the medical psilocybin program, the following individuals within the legal entity 
shall be deemed to also hold a financial interest: 
  (1) For limited partnerships, each general partner in the limited partnership; 
  (2) For limited liability companies, each manager and managing member of the limited 
liability company; 
  (3) For for-profit corporations, each principal officer of the corporation; and 
  (4) For non-profit entities, each principal officer of the entity. 
[7.35.2.9 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.10 GENERAL PRODUCER REQUIREMENTS: 
 A. A producer shall: 
  (1) Only cultivate, manufacture, and possess psilocybin and psilocybin products on the 
producer’s permitted premises, and shall not transport psilocybin outside the state of New Mexico. 
  (2) Use equipment, counters and surfaces for post-harvest processing that are food-grade and 
do not react adversely with any solvent being used. 
  (3) Construct and maintain floors, walls, ceilings, counters and surface areas in a manner that 
reduces the potential development of microbials, molds, and unintended fungi. 
  (4) Maintain the licensed premises in a manner that is free from conditions that may result in 
contamination of psilocybin products and that is suitable for safe and sanitary operations.  
  (5) Store all psilocybin products in a secured, locked area, including psilocybin products that 
require refrigeration. 
  (6) Associate every harvest lot, homogenized lot, and product lot with a unique identification 
number and enter this information into the traceability system. 
  (7) Only sell psilocybin or psilocybin products to other producers and to practitioners; and 
only otherwise distribute psilocybin or psilocybin products to medical psilocybin testing laboratories, or to 
department employees for testing in accordance with this rule.  
  (8) Immediately discontinue operations and notify the department in the event of an 
imminent health hazard that could result in contamination of psilocybin products. 
[7.35.2.10 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
===== PAGE 8 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  6 
7.35.2.11 ALLOWED PSILOCYBIN PRODUCTS: 
 A. A producer shall not manufacture psilocybin by chemical synthesis. 
 B. A producer shall not adulterate a psilocybin product and shall not sell or otherwise distribute an 
adulterated psilocybin product. 
 C. Psilocybin products shall be homogenized prior to being made available for sale or distribution.  
 D. Psilocybin products not authorized by this rule are prohibited and may not be manufactured, nor 
possessed, by any permittee. 
[7.35.2.11 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.12 PESTICIDES AND OTHER ADULTERANTS PROHIBITED: 
 A. Producers are prohibited from applying pesticides to fungi or growing medi um. 
 B. A producer shall not add to psilocybin products, substrates, growing medium, or packaging any 
chemical, drug, plant, or substance that has the effect of increasing potency, intoxicating effect, duration of effect, 
toxicity or potential for excessive use. 
 C. A producer shall document in the traceability system the growing medium and inputs utilized by 
the producer. 
 D. A producer shall not use inputs that are adulterated, shall destroy adulterated products, and shall 
document their destruction in the traceability system. 
 E. Psilocybin products that are intended for product development and that will not be made available 
for consumption shall be labeled in bold, capital letters, in a font size no smaller than 12 points, “NOT FOR 
CONSUMPTION”. 
[7.35.2.12 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.13 PRODUCER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:  A producer shall create, and shall at all times 
maintain on its premises, policies and procedures that include but are not limited to: 
 A. instructions for making each psilocybin product, including ingredients, and inputs; 
 B. the procedure for making each harvest lot or harvest lots homogenous; 
 C. procedures for conducting safety checks prior to commencing production of psilocybin products;  
 D. procedures for cleaning all equipment, counters and surfaces; 
 E. procedures for preventing growth of pathogenic organisms and toxin formations;  
 F. procedures for proper handling and storage of any solvent or other chemical used in cleaning and 
in production in accordance with material safety data sheets and other applicable laws;  
 G. procedures for proper disposal of any waste produced during processing in accordance with 
applicable laws, rules, and ordinances; 
 H. procedures for appropriate use of any necessary safety or sanitary equipment; and 
 I. emergency procedures to be followed in case of fire, chemical spill or other emergencies.  
[7.35.2.13 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.14 PACKAGING AND LABELING; PRODUCT INFORMATION DOCUMENT: 
 A. Packaging requirements:  A producer shall comply with the following packaging requirements 
for all psilocybin products: 
  (1) A producer shall utilize packaging for a psilocybin product that is intended for sale or 
distribution that protects the product from contamination and excessive moisture, and that does not impart any toxic 
or harmful substance. 
  (2) Packaging shall not display any untruthful or misleading content. 
  (3) Packaging shall not feature a design that is attractive to minors; and 
  (4) A label shall be printed or otherwise affixed on the psilocybin product package that shall: 
   (a) contain all required information in a legible font at least eight points; 
   (b) be written in English (though it may also be written in additional languages); 
   (c) be unobstructed and clearly visible; 
   (d) contain the producer’s business name and permit number; 
   (e) identify the type of product contained in the packaging (e.g., homogenized 
mushroom powder); 
   (f) identify the species name and cultivar(s) of fungi contained in the psilocybin 
product; 
===== PAGE 9 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  7 
   (g) identify the net quantity of the package contents using the metric system of 
measurement; 
   (h) identify the potency of psilocybin analytes contained in the product, expressed 
in milligrams, and calculated using laboratory test results, including: 
    (i) total psilocybin equivalent; and 
    (ii) total potential psilocin; 
   (i) identify a unique identification number of the product lot; 
   (j) identify the expiration date of the psilocybin product; 
   (k) include the statement, “Keep out of the reach of children”; and 
   (l) a logo designated by the department that is no smaller than 1/2 inch by 1/2 inch, 
indicating the product contains psilocybin;  
 B. Product information document:  A producer shall generate and make available to qualified 
patients and practitioners a product information document, in printed and electronic form, that lists the following 
information in English in 12-point font or larger: 
  (1) all of the information required to be contained on the product label; 
  (2) a statement regarding the number of years the producer’s business has been established in 
New Mexico and a statement declaring the state and country of residency, including length of time of residency, of 
any individual who owns or has invested in the company; 
  (3) results of all laboratory tests and re-tests conducted on homogenized lots and product 
lots; 
  (4) the type and composition of the growth medium used, including type of grain, soil, 
compost, and other inputs; 
  (5) date of manufacture or processing of the final product, including date of homogenization; 
  (6) list of all active and inactive ingredients in descending order of predominance by weight 
or volume; 
  (7) list of potential major food allergens which might be contained in the product or in the 
growth medium; 
  (8) intended use and directions for use; 
  (9) a description of how the product should be stored to maintain quality and freshness; 
  (10) the statement: “This product is not approved by the FDA to treat, cure, or prevent any 
disease. The FDA has not evaluated this product for safety, effectiveness, or quality. There may be long term 
adverse health effects from consumption of psilocybin, including additional risks for women who are or may 
become pregnant or are breastfeeding.” 
  (11) the statement, “The risks, benefits, drug interactions, and effects of psilocybin are not 
fully understood. Individual results may vary”; 
  (12) the statement, “Do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery while under the  use of 
psilocybin”; 
  (13) the telephone number for the New Mexico poison and drug information center; and 
  (14) the telephone number for the New Mexico crisis and access line. 
 C. A practitioner shall provide the product information document to the patient prior to 
administration of the applicable psilocybin product. 
 D. A practitioner shall, upon request, make reasonable efforts to provide a translation of the product 
information document to languages other than English and in an accessible format. 
[7.35.2.14 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.15 GENERAL TRACKING REQUIREMENTS:  In addition to any requirements specific to 
tracking within each permit type, all producers shall meet minimum requirements. 
 A. Tracking psilocybin:  Producers shall track cultivation batches, harvest lots, homogenized lots, 
product lots, and psilocybin product inventory using the traceability system specified by the department, in 
accordance with the following: 
  (1) each cultivation batch, homogenized lot, and product lot shall be assigned a unique 
identification number in the traceability system; 
  (2) cultivation batches shall not be transferred in their entirety to another producer; and 
  (3) producers are prohibited from removing an assigned unique identification number. 
 B. Tracking testing results:  Medical psilocybin laboratories shall record the results of all required 
testing of psilocybin samples or products using the traceability system. 
===== PAGE 10 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  8 
 C. Additional information to be recorded:  A producer shall ensure the following data is timely 
and accurately recorded in the traceability system: 
  (1) a complete inventory of all cultivation batches, harvest lots, homogenized lots, product  
lots, and psilocybin products in the possession, control or ownership of the producer; 
  (2) any changes to the producer’s inventory; 
  (3) when psilocybin material is converted to waste; 
  (4) the reason any psilocybin material is converted to waste; 
  (5) when psilocybin waste is destroyed; 
  (6) any theft of psilocybin related batches, lots, or products; 
  (7) all sales records of products; 
  (8) results of all testing mandated by the department; and 
  (9) the county and municipality, as applicable, where the psilocybin or psilocybin product 
was harvested, otherwise cultivated, manufactured, tested, sold to other producers, sold to practitioners, and 
disposed of or destroyed. 
[7.35.2.15 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.16 IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF TRACEABILITY SYSTEM: 
 A. Operational account:  A producer and a laboratory may apply for an account and department 
training once they receive a permit from the department. A producer and a laboratory shall activate a traceability 
system account and shall ensure the account is functional prior to operating or exercising any privilege of a permit. 
 B. System administrator required:  Each producer and laboratory shall designate at least one 
individual as a traceability system administrator. 
 C. Additional users:  A producer and a laboratory may designate additional individuals as 
traceability system users. The producer or laboratory shall ensure that all individuals who are granted account access 
are trained by a traceability system administrator in the use of the traceability system. 
 D. System training:  A producer and a laboratory or its designee shall attend and successfully 
complete all required traceability system training provided by the department. 
 E. Continuing education:  The department may require additional continuing education for a 
producer’s and a laboratory’s assigned traceability system administrator to retain their account. 
 F. Responsibility for traceability system costs:  Each producer and laboratory shall be solely 
responsible for all costs, including any applicable vendor fees, associated with the producer’s or  laboratory’s use of 
the traceability system. 
[7.35.2.16 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.17 GENERAL TRACEABILITY SYSTEM USE: 
 A. System required:  All traceability activities of a producer and laboratory shall be tracked and 
reconciled daily through the use of the department-approved traceability system. 
 B. Weights and measures: Producers and laboratories shall utilize a standard of weights and 
measures that is supported by the traceability system to track all products.  A scale used to weigh product prior to 
entry into the traceability system shall be certified to be registered and calibrated in accordance with applicable 
requirements of the New Mexico department of agriculture. 
 C. System security:  Producers and laboratories shall maintain the security of the traceability system, 
as follows.  A producer shall: 
  (1) maintain an accurate and complete list of all traceability system users for each permit; 
  (2) update the user list when a new user of the system is trained or when a previous user is 
removed; 
  (3) train and authorize any new users of the system before they are allowed to access the 
traceability system; and 
  (4) cancel the user privileges of any user and their associated accounts once the person is no 
longer employed by the producer. 
 D. Additional software allowed:  Producers and laboratories may use additional software 
applications to collect information to be used by the business, including additional inventory tracking and point of 
sale systems. 
 E. Entry of data:  Producers and laboratories shall enter data into the traceability system that fully 
and transparently accounts for all inventory tracking activities. 
===== PAGE 11 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  9 
 F. Use of assigned account:  Individuals entering data into the traceability system shall only use that 
individual’s traceability system account. 
 G. Loss of access:  If at any point a producer or laboratory loses access to the traceability system for 
any reason, the producer or laboratory shall immediately notify the department and shall maintain comprehensive 
records detailing all traceability activities that occurred during the loss of access. Once access is restored, these 
traceability activities must be entered into the traceability system and the department notified. Producers and 
laboratories shall document when access to the system was lost, the cause of system loss, and when access was 
restored. 
[7.35.2.17 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.18 COMPLIANCE NOTIFICATIONS: 
 A. Monitor notifications:  Producers and laboratories shall monitor all compliance notifications 
from the traceability system or the department and shall resolve any issue(s) detailed in the compliance notification 
in a timely fashion.  Compliance notifications from the traceability system shall not be dismissed in the traceability 
system until the producer resolves the compliance issues detailed in the notification. 
 B. Monitor informational notifications:  Producers and laboratories shall take appropriate action in 
response to informational notifications received through the traceability system or the department including but not 
limited to notifications related to enforcement alerts and other pertinent information.  
[7.35.2.18 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.19 REQUIRED TESTING OF PSILOCYBIN PRODUCTS:  A producer shall arrange for samples 
to be collected and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory whenever testing is required to be conducted 
by this rule.  A producer shall ensure that testing is completed within 30 calendar days of the date of 
homogenization. 
The homogenized lot shall pass all required tests prior to being sold or distributed for consumption. 
 A. Staggered implementation: 
  (1) The department may, within its discretion, delay or suspend implementation of sample 
collection, testing, and labeling requirements in whole or in part. 
  (2) In determining the start date of an individual testing requirement, the department shall 
consider whether a psilocybin testing laboratory has validated a method for conducting the test.  
  (3) In determining the date on which a producer must have its samples collected,  the 
department shall consider the capacity of psilocybin testing laboratories to collect and transport samples.  
 B. Collection and transportation of samples; re-testing:  A psilocybin testing laboratory shall 
collect samples from a psilocybin producer for the performance of any required test, re-test after a failed result, and 
re-test after remediation.  A psilocybin testing laboratory may also test for the purposes of labeling. 
  (1) Samples shall be between 1-5 grams for every 1 kilogram of product in each 
homogenized lot and in accordance with the psilocybin testing laboratories sampling protocols 
  (2) A psilocybin testing laboratory shall develop and implement a training program for its 
staff concerning sample collection, transport, and testing, and shall require staff to successfully complete the training 
program prior to allowing staff to perform sample collection, transport of samples, or testing. 
  (3) The psilocybin testing laboratory may reject any sample that is suspected of having been 
collected in a manner that is inconsistent with the laboratory’s protocol. 
  (4) A producer may specify reasonable precautions for a psilocybin testing laboratory to  
prevent the contamination of batches or lots during the sampling process; provided that the producer shall provide 
access to laboratory staff to the entire batch or lot to be sampled.  Precautions may include, but are not limited to: 
   (a) requiring the use of gloves and other personal protective equipment; 
   (b) inspecting tools and containers prior to their use; 
   (c) specifying the location within the producer’s establishment at which the samples 
will be collected; 
   (d) specifying locations within the producer’s establishment to which laboratory 
staff will not have access; and 
   (e) the right to refuse entry to any laboratory employee or contractor not in 
compliance with the precautions. 
 C. Exception to required testing:  If additional testing requirements take effect after a psilocybin 
testing laboratory obtains a sample for testing, the laboratory shall perform only those tests required at the time the 
sample was obtained. 
===== PAGE 12 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  10 
 D. Visual inspection:  A sample shall be deemed to pass visual inspection tests if, under a minimum 
of 40x magnification, laboratory personnel detect in a one-gram sample: 
  (1) no living or dead insects, hair, eggs, or feces; and 
  (2) no more than two percent sand, soil, mold, or rocks. 
 E. Microbiological testing:  A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be 
collected and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of microbiological testing,  and the 
sample shall pass testing prior to the lot being released for sale or distribution for consumption.  A producer shall 
arrange for additional microbiological testing of the homogenized lot and any product lot derived from the 
homogenized lot no less than five months and no more than six months after the lot passes a microbiological test, in 
accordance with the re-testing provisions of this rule.  A sample shall be deemed to pass microbiological tests if the 
sample contains concentrations of target microbes not exceeding the action levels set forth in Table 1, 
Microbiological Testing Requirements, below. 
  (1) The department may require testing for additional microbes if quality control or 
inspection testing conducted by psilocybin testing laboratories, NMDA, or the department identifies their presence  
in a psilocybin product in a quantity or amount that poses a threat to public health.  The department shall provide 
written notice to producers 30 calendar days prior to requiring additional microbiological testing, except that such 
notice shall not be required when human illness is linked to contaminated psilocybin products. 
  (2) The psilocybin testing laboratory may report a collective total of the four Aspergillus 
strains listed without distinguishing individual totals. 
  (3) The test results shall be reported as “present,” “absent,” or in colony forming units (CFU) 
per one gram sample, depending on the action level stated below. 
 
Table 1. Microbiological Testing Requirements 
Target Microbe Action Level 
E. coli 100 CFU/gram 
Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus niger, or Aspergillus 
terreus 
Present  
Salmonella spp. Present 
Shiga-toxin producing E. coli Present 
Clostridium botulinum Present 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Present 
Listeria Present 
Trichoderma Present  
Total Yeast and Molds > 20 CFU 
 F. Water c ontent testing:  A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be 
collected and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of water content testing, prior to 
the lot being released for sale or distribution for consumption.  A producer shall arrange for additional water content 
testing of the homogenized lot and any product lot derived from the homogenized lot no less than five months and 
no more than six months after the lot is initially tested for water content, in accordance with  the re-testing provisions 
of this rule. 
 G. Potency testing:  A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be collected 
and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of potency testing, prior to the lot being 
released for sale or distribution for consumption.  A producer shall arrange for additional potency testing of the 
homogenized lot and any product lot derived from the homogenized lot no less than five months and no more than 
six months after the lot is tested for potency, in accordance with the re-testing provisions of this rule.  Potency 
testing shall measure the quantity of analytes identified in Table 2, “Potency Testing Requirements”.  
===== PAGE 13 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  11 
 
Table 2. Potency Testing Requirements 
Analyte CAS Number Reporting Units 
Psilocybin 520-52-5 mg/gm 
Psilocin 520-53-6 mg/gm 
Norbaeocystin 2140-59-7 mg/gm 
Baeocystin 21420-58-6 mg/gm 
Aeruginascin 114264-95-8 mg/gm 
 H. Heavy metal testing:  A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be 
collected and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of heavy metal testing, and the 
sample shall pass testing prior to the lot being released for sale or distribution for consumption.  A sample shall be 
deemed to pass the heavy metal test if the sample contains concentrations of the analytes below the action levels 
stated in Table 3, Heavy Metal Testing Requirements. 
 
 Table 3. Heavy Metal Testing Requirements 
Analyte Symbol CAS Number Action Level 
Arsenic As 7440-38-2  0.2 microgram/gm 
Cadmium Cd 7440-43-9  0.2 microgram/gm 
Lead Pb 7439-92-1  0.5 microgram/gm 
Mercury Hg 7439-97-6  0.1 microgram/gm 
*Action levels based on USP Section 232 Elemental Impurities-
Limits based on maximum of 10gm/day ingested. 
 I. Pesticide testing:  A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be collected 
and tested by an approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of pesticide testing, and the sample shall 
pass testing prior to the lot being released for sale or distribution for consumption.  A sample shall be deemed to 
pass the pesticide test if concentrations of targeted pesticides are lower than the action levels listed in Table 4, 
Pesticide Testing Requirements. 
  (1) The department may require testing for additional pesticides if quality control or 
inspection testing conducted by psilocybin testing laboratories, NMDA,  or the department identif y their presence in 
a psilocybin product produced or manufactured by any psilocybin establishment.  The department shall provide 
written notice to producers 30 calendar days before implementing required testing for additional pesticide residues. 
  (2) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to waive or diminish any requirement of the 
Pesticide Control Act, Sections 76-4-1 et seq. NMSA 1978.  The department, alone or in conjunction with NMDA, 
may investigate any suspected use of a pesticide not registered with NMDA for use on psilocybin.  
 
Table 4. Pesticide Testing Requirements 
Targeted Pesticide CAS Number Action Level: * 
†Abamectin 71751-41-2 0.01 
†Acequinocyl 57960-19-7 2.0 
†Bifenazate 149877-41-8 0.2 
†Bifenthrin 82657-04-3 0.05 
†Etoxazole 153233-91-1 1.0 
†Imazalil 35554-44-0 0.1 
†Imidacloprid 138261-41-3 3.0 
===== PAGE 14 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  12 
**Metrefenone 220899-03-6 0.05 
†Myclobutanil 88671-89-0 0.4 
†Paclobutrazol 76738-62-0 0.04 
Piperonyl butoxide 51-03-6  10 
†Pyrethrins 
(cumulative total) 
121-21-1 
25402-06-6 
4466-14-2 
1.0 
†Spinosyn A, D 
(cumulative total) 
131929-60-7 
131929-63-0 
3.0 
†Spiromesifen 283594-90-1 0.2 
†Spirotetramat 203313-25-1 0.2 
**Thiabendazole 148-79-8 40.0 
†Trifloxystrobin 141517-21-7 0.02 
Other pesticide not registered with 
NMDA for use on psilocybin 
Varies 0.02 
*Micrograms of pesticide per gram (µg/g) of sample/parts per million (ppm). 
Report levels less than the Limit of Quantitation for each pesticide residue according to the 
following example: "Paclobitrazol < 0.4 µg/g" 
†Not registered with NMDA.  
**Regulatory limits for mushrooms from the USDA via Foodchain application 
 J. Release of lot after testing:  A producer may release an entire homogenized lot or product lot for 
sale or distribution for consumption, provided that the sample taken from the lot passes the tests required in this 
section. 
 K. Procedures for testing:  A producer shall adhere to the following procedures: 
  (1) After collection of samples, a homogenized lot or product lot shall be segregated in a 
secure container and stored under controlled environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, light) designed to 
limit microbial growth or other spoilage until the producer receives a certificate of analysis indicating that the lot 
meets the testing requirements. 
  (2) The secured container shall be labeled with the identification number used in the 
traceability system, the name of the psilocybin testing laboratory, the date on which the samples were taken, and,  in 
minimum 12-point font, in all capital letters, “AWAITING TEST RESULTS. DO NOT USE.” 
  (3) The psilocybin testing laboratory and the producer submitting samples shall both 
accurately and timely document the sampling and testing of the lot in the traceability system. 
  (4) A producer shall maintain records of all results of laboratory tests conducted for at least 
the preceding two years and shall make those results available to practitioners and patients upon request. 
 L. Re-testing: 
  (1) If a sample fails any test, the producer may request re-testing by the same psilocybin 
testing laboratory or another psilocybin testing laboratory.  If the repeated test is within acceptable limits, then the 
lot may be released for sale or distribution for consumption. 
  (2) Homogenized lots and any product lots derived from a homogenized lot shall be re-tested 
for potency, water content, and microbiological contaminants no less than five months and no more than 6 months 
after the date of the previous test.  Re-testing of homogenized lots and product lots shall be conducted according to 
the same standards as the initial test of the homogenized lot. 
 M. Recall and destruction:  Any psilocybin lot that fails a test is subject to recall and destruction in 
accordance with the following: 
  (1) The producer shall remove the lot from inventory; 
  (2) If any product was previously sold or otherwise distributed from the failed lot, the 
producer shall notify those persons who received the product of the failed test result  and shall recall the product; 
  (3) If any product from the failed lot has been consumed, the practitioner who dispensed the 
product shall forward the notification of the failed test to the qualified patient who consumed the product;  
===== PAGE 15 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  13 
  (4) The producer shall note the removal from inventory and the notice of recall in the 
traceability system within 24 hours; and 
  (5) The producer shall note the success or failure of the recall in the traceability system 
within seven calendar days. 
[7.35.2.19 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.20 ADDITIONAL TESTING SERVICES OFFERED BY PSILOCYBIN TESTING 
LABORATORIES:  A psilocybin testing laboratory may provide additional testing services to producers for 
quality improvement, research and development, or labeling purposes. 
 A. Research and development testing; quality control testing:  A psilocybin testing laboratory 
may conduct such additional tests that a producer may wish to be conducted on a psilocybin product for the purposes 
of research and development or quality control. 
  (1) The producer may collect the sample, or an agent of the psilocybin testing laboratory may 
collect the sample. 
  (2) If a producer requests testing for research and development purposes, the results may not 
be used to satisfy any required testing requirement, even if the sample passes all tests.  
  (3) The failure of a test that is conducted for research and development purposes shall not 
constitute the failure of a test required by this rule. 
  (4) The results of a test conducted for research and development purposes shall not be 
included on a product label. 
 B. Testing for the purposes of labeling:  A psilocybin testing laboratory may conduct such 
additional tests that a producer may wish to be conducted on a psilocybin product for the purpose s of labeling, 
including but not limited to tests for additional pesticides, microbial contaminants, solvents, mycotoxins, and  metals. 
  (1) An agent of the psilocybin testing laboratory shall collect the samples according to the 
laboratory’s protocols. 
  (2) A label may include the results of the additional test. 
  (3) A label may include a reference to the sample passing third-party psilocybin screening 
criteria, including one or more of the following: 
   (a) naming the contaminants for which screening was performed; 
   (b) providing an electronic link or QR code to the list of contaminants for which the 
psilocybin product was screened; or 
   (c) including a statement that the product has met third-party screening criteria, 
such as those established by an industry association, except that no label shall contain claims that a psilocybin 
product is “pesticide free” or “organic” unless such statements are specifically authorized under U.S. department of 
agriculture regulations. 
 C. Reporting of contamination:  Nothing in this rule shall be interpreted to require a psilocybin 
testing laboratory to offer testing for analytes not included in required testing.  However, a psilocybin testing 
laboratory shall report to the department the detection of any contaminants found in these samples.  
 D. Testing services limited to entities in NM; tribal governments:  A psilocybin testing laboratory 
may perform any test on a sample of psilocybin product for any entity located within New Mexico,  and for any 
entity operated or permitted by a tribal government with which the department has an intergovernmental agreement 
covering psilocybin product testing.  If the intergovernmental agreement permits such entities to collect and submit 
samples, the psilocybin testing laboratory shall provide guidance on sample collection; o therwise, an agent of the 
laboratory shall collect samples. 
 E. Testing services for the department or other governmental entities:  A psilocybin testing 
laboratory may perform any test on behalf of the department, the NM department of agriculture, another state 
agency, or a state or local law enforcement authority acting within its lawful jurisdiction.  
[7.35.2.20 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.21 WASTAGE OF PSILOCYBIN AND PSILOCYBIN PRODUCTS; PERMITTED 
METHODS: 
 A. A producer shall waste any psilocybin product to which a pesticide has been applied, and shall 
waste any product that is manufactured using an unapproved solvent. 
 B. Wastage of psilocybin or psilocybin products shall be accomplished by destroying, combining, or 
otherwise incorporating the psilocybin or psilocybin product into other material making it unusable. 
===== PAGE 16 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  14 
 C. Disposal of wasted products shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable waste disposal 
laws. 
 D. Producers shall not attempt to incorporate a wasted psilocybin product into any product intended 
for human consumption. 
 E. Producers shall record the wastage of products within 24 hours, including batch or lot number, 
weight, dates of wastage and disposal, and any test results associated with the wasted product, in the traceability 
system, and shall deduct any wasted items from inventory.  The electronic record shall be retained for no less than 
two years following disposal. 
[7.35.2.21 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
  
7.35.2.22 QUALITY ASSURANCE TESTING; COMPLAINT PROCEDURE: 
 A. Department-initiated quality assurance testing:  The department or its representative(s) may 
conduct quality assurance sampling and testing of psilocybin or psilocybin products, and may require a producer to 
provide samples for this purpose.  The department may additionally adopt and enforce a randomized testing 
schedule for the sampling and testing of psilocybin products, provided that a producer shall not be required to 
submit to randomized sampling and testing of psilocybin products more than four  times within any 12-month period. 
The department may prohibit the sale or transfer of products that are determined by the department to contain 
prohibited levels of a contaminant, or that are found to have been improperly tested. 
 B. Testing by NMDOH scientific laboratory:  The New Mexico department of health scientific 
laboratory may, upon the request of the program, test psilocybin and psilocybin products and may act as a reference 
laboratory for the program. The program may also collaborate with scientific laboratory staff for the purpose of 
conducting inspections of psilocybin testing laboratories and laboratory applicants. 
 C. Complaints:  If the department receives a complaint regarding the presence of a contaminant in a 
psilocybin product, improper labeling of a psilocybin product, or if the department has reason to believe a 
contaminant or incorrect labeling may jeopardize public health and safety, the department or its representative may 
conduct an inspection and may require a producer to provide samples to the department for testing, which shall not 
be counted toward the randomized testing 12-month cap.  The department shall electronically transmit any 
complaint to the producer, via e-mail or notification in the traceability system, within five business days of the 
department receiving the complaint.  Producers shall allow the department or its representative(s) access to a facility 
or to collect samples.  A complaint shall be made on a form provided by the department that at a minimum 
identifies: 
  (1) date the complaint is filed; 
  (2) location of the product; 
  (3) any identifiable features of the product at issue, including the type and amount; 
  (4) the nature of the complaint; and 
  (5) name and contact information of the complainant. 
 D. Department sampling and testing requirements:  Department employees may possess 
psilocybin samples for the purposes of verifying a regulated entity’s compliance with the Medical Psilocybin Act or 
department rules.  The department shall comply with the following testing requirements: 
  (1) the department shall maintain chain of custody documentation for any testing samples 
taken; 
  (2) a written receipt shall be given to the producer for all testing samples; 
  (3) all testing samples shall be placed into a sealed container and clearly labeled; 
  (4) all testing samples shall be tested by the department or a designated testing facility; and 
  (5) the quantity of psilocybin or psilocybin products that is gathered by the department from 
a producer for testing purposes shall not exceed the applicable testing sample sizes. 
 E. Costs of testing:  The producer shall bear the costs of any testing required by the department. 
 F. Record of samples:  Producers shall record in the traceability system, within 24 hours, the 
samples taken by the department, including batch or lot number, weight, dates the sample was taken, and any test 
results associated with the product, and shall deduct the samples from inventory.  The electronic record shall be 
retained for no less than two years. 
[7.35.2.22 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.23 PRODUCER REQUIREMENTS FOR SANITATION AND PRODUCT HANDLING: 
Producers shall comply with the provisions of the following subparts of the 2022 United States food and drug 
administration model food code, which are incorporated as though fully set forth herein: 
===== PAGE 17 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  15 
 A. Subpart 1-2 (“Definitions”); 
 B. Subpart 2-3 (“Personal Cleanliness”); 
 C. Subpart 2-4 (“Hygienic Practices”); 
 D. Subpart 4-3 (“Numbers and Capacities”); 
 E. Subpart 4-4 (“Location and Installation”); 
 F. Subpart 4-5 (“Maintenance and Operation”);  
 G. Subpart 4-6 (“Cleaning of Equipment and Utensils”); 
 H. Subpart 4-7 (“Sanitization of Equipment and Utensils”); 
 I. Subpart 5-1 (“Water”); 
 J. Subpart 5-2 (“Plumbing System”); 
 K. Subpart 5-4 (“Sewage, Other Liquid Waste, and Rainwater”); 
 L. Subpart 6-1 (“Materials for Construction and Repair”); 
 M. Subpart 6-2 (“Design, Construction, and Installation”); 
 N. Subpart 6-3 (“Numbers and Capacities”); 
 O. Subpart 6-4 (“Location and Placement”); and 
 P. Subpart 6-5 (“Maintenance and Operation”). 
[7.35.2.23 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.24 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF PSILOCYBIN: 
 A. General requirements:  Producers shall develop and maintain a plan for safe transportation of 
psilocybin which shall include the following requirements: 
  (1) transportation of psilocybin shall only be conducted by persons holding a permit or 
designated employees, or contractors of a permittee or certified practitioner; 
  (2) prior to transporting psilocybin a permittee must complete a chain of custody form, only 
the psilocybin listed on the chain of custody form may be transported; 
  (3) psilocybin shall only be transported inside of a motor vehicle in reasonable operating 
condition and shall not be visible or identifiable from outside of the vehicle; 
  (4) psilocybin shall be locked in a box, container, or cage that is secured within the inside of 
the vehicle, including when such a box, container, or cage is located inside of the trunk;  
  (5) vehicles shall be locked and secured while left unattended; 
  (6) vehicles shall have a vehicle alarm system; 
  (7) psilocybin shall not be tampered with, or opened, during transport; 
  (8) a person who transports psilocybin or psilocybin products may transport to multiple 
approved locations during one trip; 
  (9) a person who transports psilocybin or psilocybin products shall not deviate from the 
travel requirements described in this section, except for necessary rest, fuel, or vehicle repair stops;  
  (10) vehicles transporting psilocybin are subject to inspection by the department at any 
permitted premises or during transport at any time; 
  (11) storage and transportation of psilocybin shall be under conditions that will maintain and 
protect it against physical, chemical, and microbial contamination as well as against deterioration of the psilocybin 
and the container;  
  (12) the vehicle must be properly registered with the New Mexico motor vehicle division; and  
  (13) the driver of the vehicle must be prepared to show proper identification, including an  
employee badge, driver’s license, vehicle registration and proof of insurance, and the appropriate chain of custody 
form to law enforcement and the department when requested. 
 B. Chain of custody form:  Prior to transporting psilocybin, a permittee shall generate and submit a 
chain of custody form through traceability for the following activities: 
  (1) testing and sampling of psilocybin; 
  (2) sale of psilocybin; and 
  (3) destruction, wastage, or disposal of psilocybin. 
 C. Verification of chain of custody form:  The permittee receiving the psilocybin shipment will 
verify the psilocybin is accurately reflected in the chain of custody. 
 D. Rejection of shipment:  Permittees shall not take into possession or transport: 
  (1) Any psilocybin that is not on the chain of custody form; or 
  (2) Any psilocybin that is less than or greater than the amount reflected on the chain of 
custody. 
===== PAGE 18 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  16 
 E. Responsibility for discrepancy:  A permittee who transports a psilocybin product shall be 
responsible for any discrepancy between the chain of custody form and the psilocybin product in their possession 
during transport. 
 F. Void or change prohibited:  A permittee shall not void or alter a chain of custody document after 
departing from the originating licensed premises. 
 G. Documentation of all transport:  A chain of custody document shall accompany every transport 
of psilocybin or a psilocybin product. 
[7.35.2.24 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.25 MONITORING AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS: 
 A. Monitoring: The department or its designee may perform on-site assessments of a permittee or 
permittee-applicant, with or without prior notice, during normal business hours to determine compliance with the 
Medical Psilocybin Act and this rule. 
 B. Corrective action: If the department or its designee finds that corrective action is needed to 
ensure compliance with the Medical Psilocybin Act or this rule, the department shall issue notice to the permittee or 
permittee-applicant of the deficiency, and the permittee or permittee-applicant shall correct the deficiency within 30 
calendar days. 
 C. Record access; interviews:  The department may review any and all records related to the 
operation of a permittee, and may require and conduct interviews with such persons or entities, and with persons 
affiliated with such entities, for the purpose of determining compliance with the Medical Psilocybin Act and this 
rule.  The department shall have access to the financial records of a permittee, including sales records, and shall be 
granted immediate access to inspect or copy those records upon request. 
 D. Referral to law enforcement:  The department shall refer complaints alleging criminal activity 
that are made against a permittee to appropriate law enforcement authorities. 
 E. Financial records:  A permittee shall maintain detailed sales and invoicing records in a manner 
and format approved by the department, and shall inform the department of the location where such records are kept, 
and shall promptly notify the department if the records are removed. 
[7.35.2.25 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.26 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS AND APPEAL PROCESS: 
 A. Immediate suspension; record review process:  If immediate action is necessary to protect the 
health and safety of the public, the program administrator or their designee may immediately suspend the permit of a 
producer or laboratory in whole or in part. 
  (1) A permittee whose permit has been immediately suspended in whole or in part may 
request a record review in accordance with this part. 
  (2) The sole issue at a record review on a summary suspension is whether the permit  shall 
remain suspended pending a final adjudicatory hearing and subsequent decision by the secretary. 
  (3) A permittee given notice of summary suspension may submit a written request for a 
record review.  To be effective, the written request shall: 
   (a) be made no later than 30 calendar days from the date of the notice issued by the 
department, as determined by the postmark; 
   (b) be properly addressed to the medical psilocybin program; 
   (c) state the requestor’s name, address, and telephone number; 
   (d) provide a brief narrative rebutting the stated grounds for the suspension, or 
demonstrating that the issues which resulted in the suspension have been resolved; and 
   (e) include attachments of any additional documentation that the permittee wishes 
to be considered in the record review. 
  (4) The record review requested subsequent to an immediate suspension shall be conducted 
by the program administrator or their designee. 
  (5) The program administrator shall appoint a designee to conduct the record review by 
reviewing all documents submitted by the permittee and the department that are relevant to the immediate 
suspension. 
  (6) The record review shall be completed, and a written decision issued by the program 
administrator or their designee, no later than 15 calendar days from the date that the medical psilocybin program 
receives the written request for record review.  The decision shall be issued to the permittee via certified U.S. postal 
mail. 
===== PAGE 19 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  17 
 B. Notices of disciplinary action; grounds for disciplinary action:  The department may issue 
notice of an immediate suspension and notice of contemplated disciplinary action to a permittee.  Notice shall be 
served upon a permittee’s contact person of record. Notice shall be served via certified U.S. postal mail.  A notice 
shall be deemed to have been served on the date borne by the return receipt showing delivery or the last attempted 
delivery of the notice or decision to the addressee or refusal of the addressee to accept delivery of the notice or 
decision. 
 C. Grounds for disciplinary action:  Disciplinary action may be taken against a permittee or a 
permit-applicant.  Disciplinary action may consist of revocation, or suspension in whole or in part, of a permit, 
denial of an application for a permit, and other actions.  Disciplinary action may be imposed based on: 
   (a) violation of any provision of this rule; 
   (b) selling or distributing psilocybin or a psilocybin product in a manner that is 
inconsistent with rule or statute; 
   (c) threatening or harming a patient, a practitioner, clinician, guide, or an employee 
of the department; 
   (d) intentionally destroying, damaging, altering, removing, or concealing evidence 
of a violation of rule or statute; attempting to do so; or asking or encouraging another person to do so; 
   (e) conduct that shows willful or reckless disregard for health or safety; 
   (f) failure to comply with the department’s requested access to premises or 
materials; 
   (g) falsification or misrepresentation of any material or information submitted to the 
department; 
   (h) failure to adhere to any attestation, acknowledgement, verification, or other 
representation made to the department; 
   (i) failure to submit or disclose information required by this rule or otherwise 
requested by the department; 
   (j) failure to correct any violation of this rule that is cited as a result of a review or 
audit of financial records or other materials, or that is cited as a result of a monitoring visit or site inspection; 
   (k) a discrepancy between a chain of custody form and the transported psilocybin 
product; 
   (l) a finding of non-compliance with tax obligations by a taxation regulatory 
authority; and 
   (m) a finding by the department that any person holds an ownership interest in a 
permit or permittee that is nominal or without the benefits and risks of genuine ownership. 
 D. Persons and entities who may request a hearing:  The following persons or entities may request 
a hearing to contest an action or proposed action of the department, in accordance with this rule:  
  (1) a permittee whose permit has been immediately suspended or who has received a notice 
of contemplated action to impose a disciplinary action; and 
  (2) a permit-applicant whose application is denied for any reason other than failure to submit 
a completed application or failure to meet a submittal requirement of this rule . 
 E. Timing and content of request for hearing:  A permittee or permit-applicant who wishes to 
request a hearing may do so by mailing a written request for hearing no later than 30 calendar days from the date 
that the notice of contemplated action is received, or in the case of an immediate suspension, no later than 30 
calendar days from the date of the immediate suspension.  The request shall: 
  (1) be properly addressed to the medical psilocybin program; 
  (2) be mailed to the medical psilocybin program via certified U.S. postal mail (return receipt 
requested, to verify delivery); 
  (3) state the requestor’s name, address, and telephone number; and 
  (4) include a statement of the issue(s) that the requestor considers relevant to the review of 
the action. 
 F. Hearing process: 
  (1) All hearings held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by a hearing officer 
appointed by the secretary. 
  (2) Hearings shall be conducted in Santa Fe, NM, provided that, if the permittee or 
permittee-applicant is located more than 100 miles from Santa Fe, NM, or if the parties otherwise consent, the 
hearing may be conducted via telephone or via web video conference; 
===== PAGE 20 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  18 
  (3) Hearings held pursuant to this section that concern patients or patient-applicants shall be 
closed to the public.  Hearings may also be closed in whole or in part, upon the request of a party, to prevent the 
disclosure of information that is confidential under applicable law. 
  (4) The hearing shall be recorded, at a minimum, by means of sound reproduction. 
 G. Scheduling:  The department shall schedule and hold the hearing as soon as practicable, provided 
that the hearing shall not be held later than 60 calendar days from the date the department receives the request for 
hearing.  The hearing officer may extend the 60 day time period upon motion for good cause shown, or the parties 
may extend the 60 day time period by mutual agreement.  The department shall issue a notice of hearing, which 
shall include: 
  (1) a statement of the location, date, and time of the hearing; 
  (2) a short and plain statement of the legal authority under which the hearing is to be held; 
and 
  (3) a short and plain statement of the subject of the hearing. 
 H. Presentation of evidence:  All parties shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and 
argument on all relevant issues. 
 I. Record of proceeding:  The record of the proceeding shall include the following: 
  (1) all pleadings, motions, and intermediate rulings; 
  (2) evidence and briefs received or considered; 
  (3) a statement of matters officially noticed; 
  (4) offers of proof, objections, and rulings thereon; 
  (5) proposed findings and conclusions; and 
  (6) any findings or decisions recommended by the hearing officer for adoption by the 
secretary. 
 J. Recording:  A party may request a copy of the recording of the proceedings. 
 K. Procedures and evidence: 
  (1) A party may be represented by a person licensed to practice law in New Mexico or a non -
lawyer representative, or may represent themselves. 
  (2) The rules of evidence as applied in the courts do not apply in these proceedings.  Any 
relevant evidence shall be admitted.  Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded. 
  (3) The experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge of the hearing officer , 
the department or the department’s staff may be used in the evaluation of evidence. 
  (4) An appellant’s failure to appear at the hearing at the date and time noticed for the hearing 
shall, absent good cause, constitute a default. 
 L. Conduct of proceeding:  Unless the hearing officer determines that a different procedure is 
appropriate, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this rule.   The following 
procedures shall apply: 
  (1) the appellant shall present an opening statement and the department may present an 
opening statement or reserve the statement until presentation of the department’s case;  
  (2) after the opening statements, if made, the appellant shall present their case; 
  (3) upon the conclusion of the appellant’s case, the department shall present its case; 
  (4) upon conclusion of the appellee’s case, the appellant may present rebuttal evidence; and  
  (5) after presentation of the evidence by the parties, the parties may present closing 
argument. 
 M. Burden of proof:  The appellant shall bear the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the 
evidence that the decision made or proposed by the department should be reversed or modified.  
 N. Continuances:  The hearing examiner may grant a continuance for good cause shown.  A motion 
to continue a hearing shall be made at least 10 calendar days before the hearing date.  
 O. Telephonic and web video hearings: 
  (1) Any party requesting that a hearing be conducted via telephone or web video conference 
shall do so no less than 10 business days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given to all 
parties and shall include all necessary telephone numbers or instructions for access to the web video conference. 
  (2) The in-person presence of some parties or witnesses at the hearing shall not prevent the 
participation of other parties or witnesses by telephone or web video conference with prior approval of the hearing 
officer. 
 P. Recommended action and final decision: 
===== PAGE 21 =====
7.35.2 NMAC  19 
  (1) The parties may submit briefs including proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law 
for consideration by the hearing officer. 
  (2) No later than 30 calendar days after the last submission by a party, the hearing officer  
shall prepare and submit to the secretary a written recommendation of action to be taken by the secretary.   The 
recommendation may include proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law for adoption by the secretary, and 
shall propose sustaining, modifying, or reversing the action or proposed action of the department. 
  (3) The secretary shall issue a final written decision accepting or rejecting the hearing 
officer’s recommendation in whole or in part no later than 45 calendar days after receipt of the hearing officer’s 
recommendation.  The final decision shall identify the final action taken. Service of the secretary’s final decision 
shall be made upon the appellant by certified mail. 
  (4) The final decision or order shall be included in a permittee’s file with the medical 
psilocybin program. 
[7.35.2.26 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.2.27 SEVERABILITY:  The provisions of this rule are separate and severable.  If any provision of this 
rule is held to be invalid, unconstitutional, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall stay in effect. 
[7.35.2.27 NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
HISTORY OF 7.35.2 NMAC - [RESERVED] 
===== PAGE 22 =====
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING 
 
The New Mexico Department of Health will hold a public hearing on the proposed adoption of a new rule,  7.35.2 
NMAC, concerning the New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Program (“Program”).  The hearing will be held on Friday, 
April 24, 2026 at 9:00 a.m. in the Harold Runnels Building auditorium, located at 1190 St. Francis Drive, Santa Fe, 
New Mexico.  The hearing will also be broadcast via a live web-based video conference, and via telephone. 
Members of the public who wish to submit public comment regarding the  proposed rule will be able to do so in 
person at the hearing, via video conference, or via telephone during the course of the hearing, and by submitting 
written comment. 
 
The rule 7.35.2 NMAC proposes to adopt standards for psilocybin producers and psilocybin testing laboratories in 
the NM Medical Psilocybin Program.  The rule includes, but is not limited to, the following:  
 
• Section 7, “Definitions”: defines various terms used in the rule; 
• Section 8, “Permit Application Requirements”: sets requirements for applications for producer and 
laboratory permits; 
• Section 9, “General Permittee Requirements”: sets requirements applicable to all producers and laboratories 
in the Program, including restrictions on transfer of permits and control and a prohibition on nominee, straw, and 
proxy ownership; 
• Section 10, “General Producer Requirements”: sets general requirements particular to producers in the 
Program; 
• Section 11, “Allowed Psilocybin Products”: prohibits adulteration of psilocybin products and requires 
homogenization of psilocybin products; 
• Section 12, “Pesticides and Other Adulterants Prohibited”: prohibits application of pesticides to fungi or 
growing medium; 
• Section 13, “Producer Policies and Procedures”: requires producers to create and maintain various policies 
and procedures concerning the production process and product waste; 
• Section 14, “Packaging and Labeling; Product Information Document”: sets standards for labeling of 
medical psilocybin products and creation of an associated product information document; 
• Section 15, “General Tracking Requirements”: requires tracking of batches and lots, and wasting of 
psilocybin material, using the Department’s identified traceability system; 
• Section 16, “Implementation and Administration of Traceability System”: requires designation of users of 
the Department-identified traceability system, training of users, and continuing education; 
• Section 17, “General Traceability System Use”: requires maintaining an accurate user list, and cancellation 
of user accounts for users who are no longer employed by the producer; 
• Section 18, “Compliance Notifications”: requires that producers and laboratories monitor compliance 
notifications and informational notifications in the traceability system; 
• Section 19, “Required Testing of Psilocybin Products”: sets standards for laboratory testing of psilocybin 
products for microbiological contaminants, water content, potency, heavy metals, and pesticides. 
• Section 20, “Additional Testing Services Offered by Psilocybin Testing Laboratories”: authorizes additional 
psilocybin testing for purposes of quality improvement, research and development, and labeling;  
• Section 21, “Wastage of Psilocybin and Psilocybin Products; Permitted Methods”: requires that any 
psilocybin product to which a pesticide has been applied be converted to waste; 
• Section 22, “Quality Assurance Testing; Complaint Procedure”: authorizes QA testing by the Department of 
Health, and describes how complaints can be submitted; 
• Section 23, “Producer Requirements for Sanitation and Product Handling”: incorporates various provisions 
of the 2022 FDA Model Food Code; 
• Section 24, “Requirements for the Transportation of Psilocybin”: sets requirements for transport of 
psilocybin products; 
• Section 25, “Monitoring and Corrective Actions”: authorizes the Department to perform on-site 
assessments of a permittee or permit applicant, interview persons affiliated with permittees; and 
• Section 26, “Disciplinary Actions and Appeals Process”: establishes procedures for disciplinary actions 
against permit holders and applicants for a permit, including grounds for disciplinary actions, and the process for 
requested administrative hearings. 
 
EXHIBIT 3
===== PAGE 23 =====
The purpose of the proposed rule 7.35.2 NMAC is to implement the Medical Psilocybin Act, sections 26-2D-1 
through -11, NMSA 1978. 
 
The legal authority authorizing the adoption of this rule by the Department is the Department of Health Act, 
subsection E of section 9-7-6 NMSA 1978, which authorizes the secretary of the department of health to “...make 
and adopt such reasonable and procedural rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the 
department and its divisions,”; and the Medical Psilocybin Act, at section 26-2D-7, NMSA 1978, which requires the 
Department to promulgate requirements, restrictions, and limitations for the Program, as well as necessary training, 
safety protocols, best practices, and requirements for data collection. 
 
A free copy of the full text of the proposed rule can be obtained online from the New Mexico Department of 
Health’s website at http://nmhealth.org/about/asd/cmo/rules/ or by contacting the Department using the contact 
information below. 
 
The public hearing will be conducted to receive public comment on the  proposed rule.  Any interested member of 
the public may attend the hearing and may submit data, views, or arguments on the proposed rule either orally or in 
writing during the hearing. 
 
The hearing will be held on April 24, 2026 at the Harold Runnels Building auditorium, located at 1190 St. Francis 
Drive, Santa Fe, New Mexico. 
 
To access the hearing via the Internet: please go to https://www.microsoft.com/en -us/microsoft-teams/join-a-
meeting and then enter the following meeting i.d. code and passcode where indicated on the screen: meeting i.d. 
code 228 537 544 934 10 and passcode tL3eH7yM  and then click the “Join a meeting” button. 
To access the hearing by telephone: please call 1-505-312-4308 and enter phone conference i.d. 467 689 840# 
 
All comments will be recorded. 
 
Written public comment regarding the proposed rule can be submitted either by e-mail to Jacob Clark at 
jacob.clark@doh.nm.gov, or by U.S. postal mail to the following address: 
 
Jacob Clark 
NMDOH OGC 
P.O. Box 26110  
1190 St. Francis Dr., Suite N-4095 
Santa Fe, NM 87502-6110 
 
Written comments must be received by the close of the public rule hearing on  April 24, 2026.  All written comments 
will be published on the agency website at https://www.nmhealth.org/about/asd/cmo/rules/  within 3 days of receipt, 
and will be available at the New Mexico Department of Health for public inspection.  
 
If you are an individual with a disability and need special assistance or accommodation to attend or participate in the 
hearing, please contact Jacob Clark by telephone at (505) 827-2997.  The Department requests at least ten (10) days’ 
advance notice to provide special accommodation. 
===== PAGE 24 =====
EXHIBIT 4
===== PAGE 25 =====

===== PAGE 26 =====
EXHIBIT 5
===== PAGE 27 =====

===== PAGE 28 =====
NMHealth 
OFFICE or GENERAL COUNSEL 
Via Electronic Mail 
March 5, 2026 
Craig Erickson 
Utton & Kery, P.A. 
PO Box 2386 
Santa Fe, NM 87504 
E-mail: craig@uttonkery.com
Michelle Lujan Grisham 
Governor 
Gina DeBlassie 
Cabinet Secretary 
New Mexico Department of Health 
Re: Appointment Letter, Public Rulemaking Hearing on Proposed Adoption of a New 
Rule 7.35.2 NMAC, the New Mexico Psilocybin Program 
Dear Mr. Erickson: 
Pursuant to NMSA 1978, § 9-7-6(E), I hereby appoint you to serve as the hearing officer to preside 
at the Department of Health's public hearing April 24th, 2026, and to submit a written 
recommendation regarding the proposed rule adoption. This rulemaking hearing is scheduled for 
9:00 a.m. and will be a hybrid rule hearing, conducted in-person at the Harold Runnels Building 
auditorium, located at 1190 St. Francis Drive, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87505, and via the Microsoft 
Teams web conference platform and via telephone. Attached is a copy of the Notice of Public 
Hearing. 
The hearing will be conducted to receive public comment regarding the adoption of a new rule, 
7.35.2 NMAC, "New Mexico Psilocybin Program". An exhibit binder will be provided to you 
prior to the date of the hearing. 
Thank you for accepting this appointment. 
:iiaiieBlassie 
NMDOH Cabinet Secretary 
cc: Christopher D. Woodward, Deputy General Counsel 
Date 1 
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY I NEW MEXICO DEPARTMENT OF HEAL TH
1190 St. Francis Dr., Suite N4100 • P.O. Box 26110 • Santa Fe, New Mexico• 87502 
(505) 827-2613 • FAX: (505) 827-2530 • www.nmhealth.org
EXHIBIT 6
===== PAGE 29 =====
EXHIBIT 7
===== PAGE 30 =====

===== PAGE 31 =====
1 
 
LIST OF ANTICIPATED REVISIONS TO 7.35.2 NMAC 
This is a list of revisions that the Department anticipates making to the proposed rule 7.35.2 NMAC.  This 
list includes edits that the Department plans to make at this point.  However, it is not a ﬁnal list, and the 
Department will continue considering the written and oral public comments.   
1.   7.35.2.7(A)(1) NMAC; revise deﬁnition of “actual control” as follows: 
 (1) “Actual control” means the ability to: 
   (a) [direct] control the policies, management, [and] or personnel of a permittee; 
   (b) [exert authority over ] control strategic priorities, capital allocations, 
acquisitions, and divestments of a permittee; or 
   (c) control a majority of voting rights of a permittee. 
 
These revisions are proposed to ensure that persons who assume an ownership interest in a permittee, 
including investors, can exert authority over the permittee’s business, while still preventing a transfer of 
majority control  (i.e., the ability to totally control the business)  to any one person.   For example,  by 
removing the “exert authority” text and replacing it with the word “control” , the rule would allow a person 
who purchases an ownership interest in a permittee to vote their shares. 
This revision is also intended to ensure that the deﬁnition of “actual control” does not conﬂict with the 
“genuine ownership” requirements at 7.35.2.9(B) NMAC, which effectively require that persons who hold 
an ownership interest in a permittee be able to exert authority over the permittee as one of the 
“customary incidents of ownership” .  
2.   7.35.2.7(A)(2) NMAC; revise deﬁnition of “administration session” as follows: 
(2) “Administration session” means the [ therapeutic session combined with the administration 
of] session in which psilocybin is administered. 
This revision is proposed to narrow the deﬁnition of “administration session” , to more clearly delineate 
between administration sessions that involve the actual administration of psilocybin, and therapy 
sessions that do not involve psilocybin administration.    
3.   7.35.2.7(I)(2) NMAC; revise deﬁnition of “inoculate” as follows: 
(2) “Inoculate” means the process of introducing psilocybin spores [of] or mycelium into growth 
medium. 
The deﬁnition accidentally included the word “of” instead of “or” , and is corrected here. 
4. 7.35.2.8 NMAC; revise application submittal requirements concerning rental properties as 
follows: 
A. General requirements: An applicant for a producer or laboratory permit shall  provide to the 
department and shall maintain the following records: * * * * 
  (9) proof of ownership of the facility or [ written approval from the owner to cultivate 
psilocybin on the premises] a signed, written statement from the owner of the property acknowledging that the 
owner understands that psilocybin products will be produced or tested on the premises; 
===== PAGE 32 =====
2 
 
This revision is meant to substitute a written acknowledgement from the property owner for the 
previously proposed “approval” from the owner. 
5.  7.35.2.9(C) NMAC; revise restriction on transferability of permits as follows: 
 C. Permits non-transferable: A permit shall not be transferred by sale, assignment, or otherwise, 
except as approved by the department upon the death of a sole proprietor.  
This revision is meant to create an exception to the general prohibition against the transfer of permits, in 
the limited circumstance where a permittee is a sole proprietor , and the sole proprietor dies.  In those 
circumstances involving sole proprietors, the only way the entity could  continue in operation  is if the 
permit is transferred in its entirety .  This text would allow that transfer, provided that the Department  
approves it. 
6.   7.35.2.19(E) NMAC, Table 1; revise “Total Yeast and Molds” Action Level from > 20 CFU to > 
1,000 CFU. 
This revision is based on the  recommended limit set by the American Herbal Products Association 
(AHPA) for yeasts and molds in powdered dried food products. 
7. 7.35.2.19(F) NMAC; specify that “Water content shall be less than 10%” in order to pass 
water content testing. 
This revision proposes to set a cap on the maximum water content that a psilocybin product can contain 
before it can be released for sale or distribution for consumption.  The Department believes that a 10% 
cap on water content is reasonable and will suffice to reduce bacterial growth. 
8. 7 . 3 5 . 2 . 2 6 ( B )  N M A C ;  s p e c i f y  t h a t  a  c o u r t e s y  c o p y  o f  a  n o t i c e  o f  i m m e d i a t e  s u s p e n s i o n  o r  
notice of proposed disciplinary action will be transmitted to the permittee via e-mail, in addition to 
service via certiﬁed U.S. postal mail. 
This was meant to be included in the proposed rule, but was accidentally omitted.  These notices will still 
be issued by certiﬁed U.S. mail, but they’ll also go out via e -mail to the e-mail address of record for the 
permittee. 
9. 7.35.2.19 NMAC, Table 4; modify certain pesticide testing action levels, as follows: 
†Abamectin 71751-41-2  [0.01] 0.15 
†Bifenthrin 82657-04-3  [0.05] 0.1 
** [Metrefenone] Metrafenone 220899-03-6  [0.05] 0.5 
 
These are revised to correct typographical errors and to more closely reﬂect relevant standards 
used for cannabis testing. 
===== PAGE 33 =====
From: Brown, James
To: Clark, Jacob, DOH; Brown, James
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Additional Comments on Definitions for Submission on the Producer and Laboratory Requirements
Date: Tuesday, April 14, 2026 4:37:45 PM
Attachments: 9605.pdf
You don't often get email from jbrown9@phs.org. Learn why this is important
CAUTION: This email originated outside of our organization. Exercise caution prior to
clicking on links or opening attachments.
Jacob,
I wanted to submit the following comments on the Definitions for the Producer and Lab
Requirements.
 
 My comments are in Red.
Thank You,
James Brown
Referring Clinician
 - Definition: A licensed clinician acting within their scope of practice who
possesses diagnostic authority.
 
 Please include examples of who this would be ie: Physicians,
CNP, PA, Psychiatrist, other Specialized Clinicians – Pharmacist & Other Specialist.
 
 The
participant has been provided medical clearance by the participant’s referring clinician.
The Referring Clinician must document and maintain reasonable evidence of a
consultation and risk review taking place, and if the consultation and risk review
identifies heightened risk associated with a specific condition, the participant must
work with the referring clinician to develop a safety plan, informed by the consultation
and risk review, and provide written informed consent to work with the Cliniican.
 
Determining Clinician - Definition: A clinician operating within their authorized scope,
responsible for determining medical appropriateness for psilocybin treatment.
 
 Please include
examples of who this would be ie: Physicians, CNP, PA, Psychiatrist, other Specialized
Clinicians – Pharmacist & Other Specialist.
The Determining Clinician must document and maintain reasonable evidence of a
consultation and risk review taking place, and if the consultation and risk review
identifies heightened risk associated with a specific condition, the participant must
work with the Determining Clinician to develop a safety plan, informed by the
consultation and risk review, and provide written informed consent to work with the
Clinician.
 
Guides or Facilitators - Definition: A licensed or certified individual trained in psilocybin
facilitation and therapeutic support. Please include examples of who this would be ie:
EXHIBIT 9
===== PAGE 34 =====
 Physicians, CNP, PA, Psychiatrist, Licensed Social Works, Caplins, Death Dulas, Natural
Medicine Doctor, Pharmacist, Nursing, & Other Healthcare Professionals.
The Guide/Facilitator must document and maintain reasonable evidence of a
consultation and risk review taking place, and if the consultation and risk review
identifies heightened risk associated with a specific condition, the participant must
work with the Facilitator to develop a safety plan, informed by the consultation and risk
review, and provide written informed consent to work with the Facilitator.
 
Integration Provider
 - Definition: A clinician or trained professional providing post-session
therapeutic integration.  Please include examples of who this would be ie: Focus would be on
Therapist, Licensed Social Workers, Physicians, CNP, PA, Psychiatrist, Psychologist, other
Specialized Clinicians – Pharmacist & Other Specialist and Healthcare Professionals.
From: Brown, James <jbrown9@phs.org>
Sent: Tuesday, April 14, 2026 4:33 PM
To: jacob.clark@doh.nm.gov <jacob.clark@doh.nm.gov>; Brown, James <jbrown9@phs.org>
Subject: Fw: Comments for Submission on the Producer and Laboratory Requirements
 
To: Jacob Clark 
Here are my comments for submission and addition to the following section (in Red) :
Thank You,
James Brown
 
M. Recall and Destruction:
PURPOSE:
To define a method by which psilocybin & psilocin recalls for substances discontinued for safety reasons will be
handled.
RECALL DEFINITIONS:
• Class 1 recall: a situation in which there is a reasonable probability that the use of or exposure to a violative
product will cause serious adverse health consequence or death.
• Class 2 recall: a situation in which use of or exposure to a violative product may cause temporary or medically
reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.
• Class 3 recall: a situation in which use of or exposure to violative product is not likely to cause adverse health
consequences.
STATEMENT OF POLICY:
===== PAGE 35 =====
• All psilocybin and psilocin involved in a recall notice will be handled per New Mexico Department of Health
regulations.
• Recall notices are available from many sources which may include wholesalers, manufactures, the N.M.
Department of Health. Each will be treated as a potential harmful until proven otherwise.
• Once a notice is received, the facility personnel with inspect all the products and floor stock for the specific
product recalled.
• If any psilocybin or psilocin is found on the recall notice, anywhere within the facility, it will be immediately
removed from circulation and quarantined.
• The facility has a quarantine area for recalled and expired psilocybin and psilocin within the facility. The container is
labelled “OUTDATED/RECALLED/DO NOT USE” wording.
• At this time the class of the recall will determine what course of action needs to be taken.
• All class 2 and 3 recalls will be processed as per recall instructions.
• For a class 1 recalls, patients must be notified of the recall, it may be done by registered mail, phone, or whatever it
takes.
• Facility system sale records will be reviewed back as far as necessary to protect patient safety. ( I.e.; Facility
Name; address; contact info)
• Copies of recalls notices received by the facility will be kept within the facility whether we had the product or not.
The recall paperwork will be signed and dated as to whether we had the product or not.
• All recall notices will be filed within the facility, these records will be available for inspection for 5 years.
• All recall notices will be reported to the Safety Committee at the next scheduled meeting and scanned into the
DOH electronic system.
• Incident reports will be done on any patient receiving class 1 recall psilocybin or psilocin prior to recall.
• When psilocybin or psilocin are recalled or discontinued for safety reasons prescribers and those who dispense or
administer the medication will be notified.
*-*-*- Presbyterian_Healthcare_Services_DISCLAIMER -*-*-* This message originates from
Presbyterian Healthcare Services or one of its affiliated organizations. It contains information,
which may be confidential or privileged, and is intended only for the individual or entity
named above. It is prohibited for anyone else to disclose, copy, distribute or use the contents
of this message. All personal messages express views solely of the sender, which are not to be
attributed to Presbyterian Healthcare Services or any of its affiliated organizations, and may
not be distributed without this disclaimer. If you received this message in error, please notify
us immediately at info@phs.org If you would like more information about Presbyterian
Healthcare Services please visit our web site http://www.phs.org
===== PAGE 36 =====
7.35.2.9 General Permittee Requirements: 
B.  Dual Ownership prohibited: A person who holds an ownership interest in a permittee shall not hold an 
interest in any other permittee.  – A person who holds an ownership interest in a producer or laboratory 
permittee shall not hold an interest in another producer or laboratory permittee.   A person holding either a 
producer or laboratory permittee is allowed to hold an interest in other permittee excluding interest in another 
producer or laboratory permittee. 
I believe this restriction is unnecessarily limiting and may hinder the development of safe, efficient, and 
patient-centered care models in New Mexico. Allowing a single entity to operate both a cultivation facility and 
a treatment facility—provided they are clearly separated—would improve continuity of care, product 
consistency, and operational efficiency. 
I recommend that the Board allow dual licensure under the following conditions: 
    •    Each operation must be located in separate suites with distinct addresses and entrances 
    •    There must be no shared or common walls between the cultivation and treatment areas 
    •    Each facility must undergo independent licensing, inspections, and regulatory compliance 
processes 
    •    Clear physical and operational separation must be maintained to ensure safety, security, and regulatory 
integrity 
This approach maintains strict oversight while enabling responsible operators to provide a more integrated 
and reliable patient experience. It also supports the development of a stable supply chain and reduces 
barriers that could otherwise limit access to treatment. 
By allowing dual licensure with proper safeguards, New Mexico can foster innovation while maintaining the 
highest standards of safety and compliance. 
 
===== PAGE 37 =====
 Joint  Public  Comment:  NMAC  7.35.2  Proposed  Propagation  Regulations  By:  Healing  Advocacy  Fund  and  Rudick  Law  Group  Authors:  Denali  Wilson,  Esq.  and  Victoria  J.  Cvitanovic,  Esq.  
Introduction  
Healing  Advocacy  Fund  and  Rudick  Law  Group  respectfully  submit  the  following  comments  to  
the
 
Department
 
of
 
Health's
 
proposed
 
regulations
 
governing
 
New
 
Mexico's
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program
 
(the
 
“Program”).
 
In
 
our
 
review
 
of
 
the
 
draft
 
rules,
 
we
 
focused
 
on
  
compliance
 
implementation,
 
financial
 
feasibility,
 
and
 
liability
 
reduction
 
for
 
all
 
parties
 
involved.
 
Addressing
 
these
 
areas
 
thoroughly
 
will
 
dramatically
 
impact
 
equity
 
and
 
access
 
within
 
the
 
program.
 
 
Commentary  Framework  and  Perspective  Applied   
New  Mexico’s  Program  is  genuinely  novel.  As  the  first  state  to  implement  a  fully  
medically-integrated
 
psilocybin
 
program,
 
the
 
regulatory
 
decisions
 
made
 
now
 
will
 
shape
 
the
 
Program's
 
safety,
 
integrity,
 
accessibility,
 
investability,
 
and
 
equity
 
for
 
years
 
to
 
come.
 
We
 
approach
 
this
 
comment
 
from
 
a
 
place
 
of
 
commitment
 
to
 
the
 
Program's
 
success
 
and
 
a
 
sincere
 
commitment
 
to
 
accomplishing
 
the
 
goals
 
of
 
the
 
Department.
 
In  preparing  these  comments,  we  applied  a  deliberately  critical  lens,  asking  how  opposing  
counsel,
 
investors,
 
financiers,
 
and
 
others
 
could
 
use
 
the
 
current
 
draft
 
regulations
 
to
 
undermine
 
the
 
Department’s
 
goals
 
of
 
protecting
 
New
 
Mexican
 
operators,
 
patients,
 
and
 
providers
 
to
 
further
 
their
 
own
 
interests.
 
We
 
believe
 
that
 
this
 
perspective
 
allows
 
the
 
Department
 
to
 
best
 
anticipate
 
risk
 
and
 
make
 
strategic
 
decisions.
 
The
 
issues
 
we
 
identify
 
are
 
solvable,
 
and
 
we
 
are
 
committed
 
to
 
working
 
collaboratively
 
with
 
the
 
Department
 
toward
 
solutions.
 
Concerns  Addressed   
Our  comments  address  four  primary  areas  of  concern:  
1.  Gaps  in  protections  against  predatory  financing  and  disguised  control;   2.  Clarity  regarding  rules  into  investment  into  permitted  businesses;   3.  The  feasibility,  costs,  and  risks  of  compliance  posed  by  the  draft  rules,   4.  Other  equity  and  access  issues;  and  5.  Issues  the  proposed  regulations  create  related  to  insurance  coverage  for  care  and  
professional
 
liability
 
insurance
1
 
For  each  concern  identified,  we  offer  a  recommended  solution.  We  welcome  direct  conversation  
on
 
any
 
of
 
these
 
topics
 
and
 
are
 
available
 
to
 
discuss
 
our
 
analysis
 
and
 
recommendations
 
at
 
the
 
Department's
 
convenience.
 
1
 Much  of  the  identified  issues  related  to  insurance  (both  professional  liability  and  care  coverage)  arise  
from
 
the
 
definitions
 
section
 
of
 
the
 
draft
 
rules.
 
We
 
understand
 
that
 
those
 
regulations
 
will
 
not
 
be
 
finalized
 
until
 
their
 
corresponding
 
regulations
 
are
 
promulgated.
 
We
 
offer
 
the
 
feedback
 
now
 
in
 
order
 
to
 
better
 
prepare
 
for
 
those
 
forthcoming
 
rule
 
promulgations.
 
 
 
===== PAGE 38 =====
 
The  issues  identified  in  this  comment  are  serious .  If  left  unaddressed,  they  present  
meaningful
 
risks
 
to
 
safety,
 
stability
 
of
 
supply
 
chain,
 
accessibility,
 
and
 
participation
 
in
 
the
 
regulated
 
Program,
 
risks
 
that
 
would
 
undermine
 
the
 
very
 
goals
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Act
 
was
 
designed
 
to
 
achieve.
 
However,
 
New
 
Mexico
 
is
 
more
 
than
 
capable
 
of
 
navigating
 
these
 
risks.
 
The
 
Department
 
is
 
the
 
ideal
 
evaluator
 
of
 
risk
 
prioritization,
 
analysis,
 
and
 
strategic
 
reduction.
 
 
The  Department  has  many  options  for  addressing  these  issues.  We  offer  a  perspective  guided  
by
 
our
 
experience
 
in
 
building
 
and
 
undoing
 
transactions,
 
addressing
 
risks
 
created
 
by
 
regulatory
 
gaps,
 
drafting
 
and
 
negotiating
 
leases,
 
representing
 
license
 
holders
 
and
 
investors,
 
working
 
with
 
government,
 
and
 
litigating
 
against
 
government.
 
It
 
is
 
with
 
confidence
 
that
 
the
 
risks
 
identified
 
can
 
be
 
mitigated
 
that
 
we
 
offer
 
this
 
comment.
 
1)  Gaps  in  protections  against  predatory  financing  and  disguised  control.   
Summary  of  Problem   Predatory  financing  in  this  context  can  be  defined  as  follows:   ●  Predatory  financing,  in  the  context  of  licensed  psilocybin  cultivation,  is  any  financing  
arrangement
 
in
 
which
 
the
 
economic
 
terms
,
 
structural
 
features
,
 
or
 
contractual
 
conditions
,
 
whether
 
individually
 
or
 
in
 
combination,
 
effectively
 
transfer
 
operational
 
control
,
 
primary
 
economic
 
benefit
,
 
or
 
decision-making
 
authority
 
over
 
a
 
licensed
 
cultivator
 
to
 
an
 
unlicensed
 
third
 
party,
 
without
 
that
 
party
 
undergoing
 
the
 
licensing
 
and
 
suitability
 
review
 
required
 
of
 
a
 
direct
 
owner
 
or
 
controlling
 
party.
  ●  Predatory  financing  is  distinct  from  legitimate  investment  risk,  which  includes  market-rate  
interest,
 
standard
 
loan
 
covenants
 
protecting
 
collateral,
 
equity
 
stakes
 
with
 
proportionate
 
governance
 
rights
 
held
 
by
 
vetted
 
investors,
 
and
 
revenue-sharing
 
arrangements
 
tied
 
to
 
actual
 
profit
 
rather
 
than
 
gross
 
extraction.
 
The
 
rules
 
should
 
not
 
be
 
so
 
broad
 
that
 
they
 
discourage
 
the
 
capital
 
formation
 
that
 
participants
 
in
 
the
 
Program
 
need.
  Two  primary  harms  result  from  predatory  financing:   1.  Economic  extraction,  and   2.  Disguised  Control.    Economic  extraction  should  be  thought  of  as  arrangements  designed  to  strip  revenue  or  
assets
 
from
 
the
 
permittee
 
on
 
terms
 
no
 
commercially
 
reasonable
 
lender
 
or
 
investor
 
would
 
demand
 
absent
 
leverage
 
over
 
a
 
regulated
 
entity.
 
Businesses
 
participating
 
in
 
state
 
programs
 
that
 
allow
 
otherwise
 
federally
 
illegal
 
conduct
 
are
 
particularly
 
vulnerable
 
to
 
economic
 
extraction
 
risks,
 
as
 
these
 
businesses
 
are
 
often
 
excluded
 
from
 
traditional
 
financing
 
and
 
the
 
dignified
 
banking
 
market.
 
  
2  
===== PAGE 39 =====
 
Disguised  control  refers  to  arrangements  that  don't  look  like  ownership  on  paper  but  
functionally
 
give
 
the
 
financing
 
party
 
the
 
ability
 
to
 
direct
 
cultivation
 
practices,
 
hiring,
 
vendor
 
selection,
 
or
 
exit
 
decisions.
 
This
 
is
 
often
 
achieved
 
through
 
covenant
 
packages,
 
exclusive
 
supply
 
or
 
service
 
agreements
 
bundled
 
with
 
the
 
financing,
 
board
 
observer
 
rights,
 
or
 
consent
 
rights
 
over
 
material
 
business
 
decisions.
  These  two  harms  frequently  appear  together  and  reinforce  each  other.  A  predatory  lender  gains  
leverage
 
through
 
punishing
 
economic
 
terms,
 
then
 
uses
 
that
 
leverage
 
to
 
exercise
 
de
 
facto
 
control.
 
Neither
 
of
 
these
 
issues
 
are
 
disclosed
 
to
 
regulators
 
because
 
the
 
party
 
never
 
appears
 
as
 
a
 
licensed
 
owner.
 
The
 
financing
 
arrangement
 
becomes
 
the
 
mechanism
 
for
 
regulatory
 
evasion.
  When  regulators  address  predatory  financing,  a  single  question  can  guide  those  efforts:  Would  
the
 
proposed
 
financing
 
arrangement,
 
taken
 
as
 
a
 
whole,
 
give
 
the
 
financing
 
party
 
influence
 
over
 
the
 
licensee
 
that
 
would
 
require
 
licensure
 
if
 
that
 
influence
 
were
 
exercised
 
through
 
direct
 
ownership?
 
If
 
so,
 
that
 
arrangement
 
should
 
require
 
permittee-level
 
disclosures
 
and
 
responsibilities
 
that
 
flow
 
to
 
the
 
financier,
 
or
 
it
 
should
 
be
 
prohibited.
 
 
Risk  Analysis–Predatory  Financing  and  Disguised  Control   
Operators  in  the  psychedelic  industry  face  capital  access  barriers  that  are  unlike  those  in  most  
regulated
 
industries.
 
Because
 
psilocybin
 
remains
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
 
under
 
federal
 
law,
 
most
 
banks
 
and
 
conventional
 
lending
 
institutions
 
will
 
not
 
provide
 
financing
 
to
 
businesses
 
operating
 
in
 
this
 
space.
 
This
 
creates
 
conditions
 
in
 
which
 
small
 
operators
 
—
 
often
 
those
 
most
 
aligned
 
with
 
the
 
equity
 
and
 
healing
 
principles
 
at
 
the
 
heart
 
of
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Act
 
—
 
are
 
dependent
 
on
 
private
 
capital
 
arrangements
 
that
 
carry
 
significant
 
risk
 
of
 
exploitation.
 
Comparable
 
dynamics
 
in
 
the
 
cannabis
 
industry
 
have
 
contributed
 
to
 
widespread
 
hardship,
 
forced
 
bankruptcies,
 
and
 
the
 
erosion
 
of
 
equity
 
goals
 
in
 
state-regulated
 
programs
 
across
 
the
 
country.
 
The  draft  regulations,  as  written,  attempt  to  address  these  risks  by  broadly  restricting  ownership  
arrangements
 
and
 
transfers
 
of
 
control.
 
However,
 
the
 
current
 
approach
 
is
 
overbroad
 
in
 
ways
 
that
 
would
 
unintentionally
 
prohibit
 
beneficial
 
arrangements,
 
like
 
friends-and-family
 
investment
 
and
 
legitimate
 
minority
 
ownership
 
stakes,
 
and
 
potentially
 
destabilize
 
the
 
supply
 
chain
 
in
 
ways
 
that
 
create
 
profound
 
risk
 
for
 
Program
 
participants,
 
such
 
as
 
facing
 
a
 
permit
 
transfer
 
ban
 
after
 
the
 
death
 
of
 
a
 
permittee.
 
 
We  believe  the  solution  is  not  to  restrict  investment  broadly,  but  to  distinguish  clearly  between  
those
 
who
 
exercise
 
actual
 
control
 
over
 
a
 
permitted
 
business
 
and
 
those
 
who
 
hold
 
a
 
passive
 
financial
 
interest.
 
The
 
suggested
 
amendments
 
below
 
offer
 
a
 
framework
 
for
 
protecting
 
permittees
 
and
 
the
 
program
 
from
 
bad-faith
 
actors
 
while
 
preserving
 
access
 
to
 
the
 
limited
 
capital
 
available
 
in
 
this
 
field.
 
The  following  section  provides  suggested  amendments  to  address  these  concerns,  along  with  
explanations
 
interspersed
 
throughout.
 
 
3  
===== PAGE 40 =====
 
Suggested  Amendments  re  Predatory  Financing  and  Disguised  Control  
The  first  few  suggested  amendments  address  defining  “actual  control”  in  a  clear,  enforceable  
manner
 
that
 
permittees
 
can
 
use
 
to
 
assess
 
their
 
compliance,
 
defining
 
“true
 
party
 
in
 
interest”
 
to
 
ease
 
identification
 
of
 
actual
 
control,
 
and
 
defining
 
“minority
 
participant,”
 
to
 
define
 
people
 
and
 
entities
 
who
 
have
 
a
 
meaningful
 
connection
 
to
 
a
 
permittee
 
but
 
who
 
do
 
not
 
have
 
actual
 
control
 
over,
 
or
 
responsibility
 
for,
 
the
 
actions
 
of
 
a
 
permittee.
 
  Original  Definition:    “Actual  control”  means  the  ability  to:  (a)  direct  the  policies,  management,  and  personnel  of  a  permittee;  (b)  exert  authority  over  strategic  priorities,  capital  allocations,  acquisitions,  and  
divestments
 
of
 
a
 
permittee;
 
or
 (c)  control  a  majority  of  voting  rights  of  a  permittee.   Suggested  Amendment:    7.35.2.7(A)(1)  “Actual  control”  means  the  direct  or  indirect  authority,  influence,  or  power,  
whether
 
exercised
 
or
 
merely
 
held,
 
and
 
whether
 
formal
 
or
 
informal,
 
written
 
or
 
unwritten,
 
by
 
which
 
a
 
natural
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
directs
 
or
 
is
 
capable
 
of
 
directing
 
the
 
management,
 
policies,
 
operations,
 
or
 
financial
 
affairs
 
of
 
a
 
permittee.
 
  "Actual  control"  includes  control  exercised  through  any  intermediary  person  or  entity.  A  person  
or
 
entity
 
exercises
 
"Actual
 
Control"
 
if
 
that
 
person
 
or
 
entity:
  (a)  Holds  an  ownership  interest  of  20%  or  more  in  a  permittee,  whether  directly  or  indirectly  
through
 
one
 
or
 
more
 
intermediary
 
entities,
 
trusts,
 
or
 
persons;
 (b)  Holds  the  position  of  manager,  managing  member,  general  partner,  trustee,  or  any  
functionally
 
equivalent
 
role
 
with
 
governing
 
authority
 
over
 
the
 
permittee,
 
regardless
 
of
 
the
 
organizational
 
form
 
of
 
the
 
permittee;
 (c)  Holds  a  seat  on  the  board  of  directors  or  governing  body  of  a  permittee,  or  holds  board  
observer
 
rights
 
that
 
include
 
the
 
ability
 
to
 
speak,
 
present
 
information,
 
or
 
otherwise
 
participate
 
in
 
board
 
deliberations;
 (d)  Has  authority,  as  evidenced  by  the  permittee's  formation  documents,  operating  
agreements,
 
bylaws,
 
financing
 
agreements,
 
management
 
services
 
agreements,
 
side
 
letters,
 
or
 
actual
 
practices,
 
whether
 
written
 
or
 
oral,
 
to
 
direct
 
the
 
policies,
 
management,
 
or
 
personnel
 
of
 
the
 
permittee,
 
including
 
the
 
ability
 
to
 
hire
 
or
 
terminate
 
employees,
 
officers,
 
or
 
contractors,
 
or
 
to
 
enter
 
into
 
binding
 
agreements
 
on
 
behalf
 
of
 
the
 
permittee.
 
The
 
existence
 
of
 
such
 
authority,
 
whether
 
or
 
not
 
exercised,
 
is
 
sufficient
 
to
 
establish
 
actual
 
control
 
under
 
this
 
prong;
 (e)  Has  authority,  alone  or  in  combination  with  others,  to  make  decisions  regarding  the  
strategic
 
priorities,
 
capital
 
allocations,
 
acquisitions,
 
divestments,
 
key
 
vendor
 
or
 
supply
 
relationships,
 
product
 
pricing
 
or
 
supply
 
agreements,
 
or
 
regulatory
 
compliance
 
matters
 
of
 
a
 
permittee;
 
4  
===== PAGE 41 =====
 
(f)  Controls  20%  or  more  of  the  voting  rights  of  a  permittee,  or  otherwise  holds  voting  rights  
sufficient
 
to
 
constitute
 
effective
 
control
 
given
 
the
 
permittee's
 
ownership
 
and
 
governance
 
structure;
 
or
 (g)  Otherwise  exercises,  or  holds  the  capacity  to  exercise,  dominant  influence  over  the  
management,
 
policies,
 
financial
 
affairs,
 
or
 
operations
 
of
 
the
 
permittee,
 
regardless
 
of
 
formal
 
title,
 
equity
 
stake,
 
or
 
documented
 
authority.
  (A)(2)  Aggregated  influence  considered.  In  determining  whether  a  person  or  entity  exercises  
actual
 
control,
 
the
 
Department
 
shall
 
consider
 
the
 
totality
 
of
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity's
 
relationship
 
with
 
the
 
permittee,
 
including
 
the
 
combined
 
effect
 
of
 
ownership
 
interests,
 
contractual
 
rights,
 
financing
 
arrangements,
 
and
 
any
 
other
 
formal
 
or
 
informal
 
authority.
 
No
 
single
 
prong
 
need
 
be
 
satisfied
 
to
 
establish
 
actual
 
control
 
if
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity's
 
aggregate
 
relationship
 
with
 
the
 
permittee
 
is
 
consistent
 
with
 
the
 
exercise
 
of
 
dominant
 
influence
 
as
 
described
 
in
 
prong
 
(7).
  Why  consider  an  amendment?    The  revised  definition  moves  away  from  the  original's  focus  on  "the  ability  to"  take  certain  
actions
 
(which
 
is
 
difficult
 
to
 
prove
 
and
 
easy
 
to
 
disclaim)
 
toward
 
a
 
definition
 
grounded
 
in
 
formal
 
authority
 
as
 
established
 
by
 
ownership
 
records,
 
formation
 
documents,
 
and
 
actual
 
business
 
practices.
 
This
 
makes
 
the
 
definition
 
more
 
administrable
 
for
 
the
 
Department
 
and
 
harder
 
to
 
evade
 
through
 
creative
 
structuring.
  Original  Definition:    7.35.2.7(G)(1)  “Genuine  ownership”  means  an  ownership  interest  in  an  applicant  or  a  
permittee
 
that
 
is
 
evidenced
 
by
 
record
 
ownership
 
in
 
which
 
the
 
owner,
 
regardless
 
of
 
the
 
amount
 
of
 
capital
 
or
 
assets
 
that
 
the
 
owner
 
contributes
 
to
 
the
 
applicant
 
or
 
permittee,
 
enjoys
 
the
 
customary
 
incidents
 
of
 
ownership
 
and
 
shares
 
in
 
the
 
profits
 
and
 
losses
 
of
 
the
 
permittee
 
proportionate
 
to
 
the
 
percentage
 
of
 
the
 
owner's
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permit.
  Suggested  Amendments:    At  7.35.2.7(G)(1),  it  is  suggested  that  the  Department  strike  the  “Genuine  Ownership”  definition.  
Instead,
 
it
 
is
 
suggested
 
that
 
the
 
Department
 
define
 
a
 
“True
 
Party
 
in
 
Interest”
 
and
 
a
 
“Minority
 
Participant”
 
and
 
associated
 
regulations
 
for
 
reach.
 
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  “True  Party  in  Interest”  (“TPI”)  means  any  person  or  
entity
 
who
 
exercises
 
Actual
 
Control
 
over
 
a
 
permittee
 
as
 
defined
 
herein,
 
regardless
 
of
 
whether
 
that
 
person
 
holds
 
a
 
formal
 
ownership
 
interest,
 
officer
 
title,
 
or
 
other
 
documented
 
role
 
with
 
the
 
permittee.
 
A
 
true
 
party
 
in
 
interest
 
need
 
not
 
be
 
a
 
named
 
owner,
 
officer,
 
or
 
employee
 
of
 
the
 
permittee
 
to
 
qualify
 
as
 
such
 
under
 
this
 
definition.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  Presumed  TPI.  The  Department  may  presume  that  a  
person
 
or
 
entity
 
is
 
a
 
TPI
 
upon
 
a
 
finding
 
of
 
any
 
of
 
the
 
following:
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
has
 
directly
 
or
 
indirectly
 
provided
 
financing
 
to
 
the
 
permittee
 
on
 
terms
 
that
 
include
 
operational
 
covenants,
 
5  
===== PAGE 42 =====
 
consent  rights,  or  control  triggers;  the  person  or  entity  holds  a  management  services,  
consulting,
 
or
 
similar
 
agreement
 
with
 
the
 
permittee;
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
has
 
regularly
 
acted
 
as
 
a
 
representative
 
of
 
the
 
permittee
 
in
 
dealings
 
with
 
regulators,
 
suppliers,
 
or
 
customers;
 
or
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
has
 
received
 
compensation
 
or
 
economic
 
benefit
 
from
 
the
 
permittee
 
disproportionate
 
to
 
any
 
disclosed
 
role
 
or
 
investment.
 
This
 
presumption
 
may
 
be
 
rebutted
 
by
 
clear
 
and
 
convincing
 
evidence.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  TPI  Disclosures.  Every  person  or  entity  who  qualifies  as  
a
 
TPI
 
with
 
respect
 
to
 
a
 
permittee
 
must
 
be
 
identified
 
by
 
name
 
on
 
all
 
permit
 
applications,
 
renewal
 
applications,
 
and
 
material
 
change
 
notifications
 
submitted
 
to
 
the
 
Department.
 
Failure
 
to
 
disclose
 
a
 
TPI
 
shall
 
constitute
 
grounds
 
for
 
denial,
 
suspension,
 
or
 
revocation
 
of
 
a
 
permit,
 
and
 
may
 
constitute
 
a
 
separate
 
violation
 
subject
 
to
 
civil
 
penalty.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  Continuing  Obligation.  A  permittee  has  a  continuing  
obligation
 
to
 
disclose
 
any
 
new
 
or
 
changed
 
TPI
 
within
 
30
 
days
 
of
 
the
 
change.
 
A
 
change
 
in
 
a
 
TPI
 
that
 
has
 
not
 
been
 
disclosed
 
to
 
and
 
approved
 
by
 
the
 
Department
 
shall
 
constitute
 
an
 
unauthorized
 
transfer
 
of
 
Actual
 
Control
 
and
 
grounds
 
for
 
permit
 
revocation.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  Equivalent  Scrutiny.  Each  TPI  must  submit  to  all  
investigation,
 
disclosure,
 
and
 
compliance
 
obligations
 
as
 
a
 
named
 
permit
 
applicant.
 
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  Equivalent  Compliance.  Each  TPI  is  jointly  and  severally  
responsible
 
with
 
the
 
permittee
 
for
 
the
 
permittee's
 
compliance
 
with
 
all
 
applicable
 
statutes,
 
rules,
 
and
 
permit
 
conditions.
 
Regulatory
 
action,
 
including
 
suspension,
 
revocation,
 
civil
 
penalty,
 
or
 
corrective
 
order,
 
may
 
be
 
taken
 
against
 
any
 
TPI
 
on
 
the
 
same
 
basis
 
as
 
against
 
the
 
permittee.
 
A
 
TPI
 
may
 
not
 
avoid
 
compliance
 
responsibility
 
by
 
delegating
 
operational
 
duties,
 
withdrawing
 
from
 
day-to-day
 
management,
 
or
 
asserting
 
that
 
Actual
 
Control
 
was
 
not
 
exercised
 
during
 
the
 
period
 
of
 
the
 
violation.
 
The
 
capacity
 
to
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control
 
during
 
the
 
relevant
 
period
 
is
 
sufficient
 
to
 
establish
 
responsibility
 
under
 
this
 
prong.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  Failure  to  Disclose  Not  a  Defense.  A  TPI  who  is  found  
to
 
have
 
exercised
 
Actual
 
Control
 
over
 
a
 
permittee
 
without
 
having
 
been
 
disclosed
 
to
 
the
 
Department
 
shall
 
be
 
subject
 
to
 
the
 
same
 
penalties
 
as
 
the
 
permittee
 
for
 
any
 
violations
 
occurring
 
during
 
the
 
period
 
of
 
undisclosed
 
control,
 
in
 
addition
 
to
 
any
 
independent
 
penalties
 
for
 
failure
 
to
 
disclose.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  “Minority  Participant”  means  any  person  or  entity  who  
contributes
 
capital,
 
labor,
 
services,
 
intellectual
 
property,
 
or
 
other
 
value
 
to
 
a
 
permittee,
 
or
 
who
 
participates
 
in
 
the
 
operations
 
of
 
a
 
permittee
 
in
 
any
 
compensated
 
or
 
ownership-bearing
 
capacity,
 
but
 
who
 
does
 
not
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control
 
over
 
the
 
permittee
 
and
 
is
 
not
 
a
 
TPI.
 
A
 
Minority
 
Participant
 
has
 
a
 
cognizable
 
relationship
 
with
 
the
 
permittee
 
but
 
does
 
not
 
bear
 
the
 
compliance
 
responsibilities
 
of
 
a
 
TPI
 
solely
 
by
 
virtue
 
of
 
minority
 
participant
 
status.
 
A
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
qualifies
 
as
 
a
 
Minority
 
Participant
 
if
 
they
 
fulfill
 
any
 
of
 
the
 
categories
 
and
 
do
 
not
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control:
  
6  
===== PAGE 43 =====
 
  (a)  Minority  capital  investor.  A  person  or  entity  who  holds  a  direct  or  indirect  ownership  
interest
 
of
 
less
 
than
 
20%
 
in
 
the
 
permittee,
 
or
 
who
 
holds
 
a
 
debt
 
instrument,
 
revenue
 
participation
 
right,
 
or
 
other
 
financial
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee,
 
where
 
that
 
interest
 
does
 
not
 
carry
 
governance
 
rights,
 
operational
 
covenants,
 
or
 
other
 
features
 
that
 
would
 
satisfy
 
the
 
Actual
 
Control
 
definition;
      (b)  Sweat  equity  contributor.  A  person  or  entity  who  has  received  or  is  entitled  to  
receive
 
an
 
ownership
 
interest,
 
profit
 
participation,
 
or
 
deferred
 
compensation
 
in
 
exchange
 
for
 
services
 
rendered
 
to
 
the
 
permittee,
 
where
 
that
 
interest
 
or
 
entitlement
 
does
 
not,
 
at
 
the
 
time
 
of
 
vesting
 
or
 
receipt,
 
cause
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
to
 
satisfy
 
any
 
prong
 
of
 
the
 
actual
 
control
 
definition;
      (c)  Key  employee  or  officer.  A  person  employed  by  or  engaged  as  an  officer  of  the  
permittee
 
in
 
a
 
role
 
that
 
involves
 
regular
 
access
 
to
 
controlled
 
substances,
 
cultivation
 
operations,
 
financial
 
records,
 
or
 
regulatory
 
compliance
 
functions,
 
or
 
who
 
exercises
 
significant
 
operational
 
responsibility
 
within
 
a
 
defined
 
function,
 
but
 
whose
 
authority
 
does
 
not
 
extend
 
to
 
Actual
 
Control;
      (d)  Operational  participant.  A  person  who  regularly  participates  in  the  day-to-day  
cultivation,
 
processing,
 
handling,
 
storage,
 
or
 
transfer
 
of
 
psilocybin
 
products
 
on
 
behalf
 
of
 
the
 
permittee,
 
including
 
supervisory
 
personnel
 
whose
 
authority
 
is
 
limited
 
to
 
a
 
defined
 
operational
 
function
 
or
 
site;
      (e)  Contracted  service  provider  with  operational  access.  A  person  or  entity  engaged  
by
 
the
 
permittee
 
under
 
a
 
services,
 
consulting,
 
or
 
management
 
agreement
 
who,
 
by
 
virtue
 
of
 
that
 
engagement,
 
has
 
regular
 
physical
 
access
 
to
 
cultivation
 
premises,
 
psilocybin
 
products,
 
or
 
the
 
permittee's
 
financial
 
or
 
compliance
 
systems,
 
but
 
whose
 
contractual
 
authority
 
does
 
not
 
independently
 
constitute
 
Actual
 
Control;
 
or
      (f)  Contingent  interest  holder.  A  person  or  entity  who  holds  an  option,  warrant,  
convertible
 
instrument,
 
or
 
other
 
contingent
 
right
 
to
 
acquire
 
an
 
ownership
 
or
 
economic
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee,
 
where
 
exercise
 
of
 
that
 
right
 
would
 
result
 
in
 
the
 
person
 
qualifying
 
as
 
a
 
Minority
 
Participant.
 
Why  consider  an  amendment?    As  written,  the  definition  and  use  throughout  of  “genuine  ownership”  is  vague  and  may  invite  
litigation.
 
It
 
is
 
also
 
unclear
 
how
 
a
 
party
 
can
 
contribute
 
to
 
a
 
permittee
 
if
 
they
 
wish
 
to
 
minimize
 
their
 
own
 
risk,
 
limiting
 
the
 
pool
 
of
 
investment
 
available
 
to
 
permittees,
 
even
 
from
 
friends
 
and
 
family
 
who
 
may
 
wish
 
to
 
assist
 
without
 
acquiring
 
responsibility
 
for
 
controlled
 
substance
 
cultivation.
 
By
 
defining
 
two
 
distinct
 
categories
 
of
 
participation,
 
the
 
Department
 
can
 
regulate
 
actual
 
control,
 
avoid
 
disguised
 
control,
 
prevent
 
predatory
 
financing,
 
and
 
encourage
 
investment.
 
  
7  
===== PAGE 44 =====
 
Note:  The  Department  may  well  require  registration  and  disclosures  from  Minority  Participants,  
even
 
though
 
they
 
aren’t
 
TPIs.
 
The
 
suggested
 
definition
 
contemplates
 
the
 
addition
 
of
 
Minority
 
Participant
 
responsibilities,
 
even
 
if
 
those
 
responsibilities
 
do
 
not
 
rise
 
to
 
the
 
level
 
of
 
that
 
which
 
is
 
expected
 
from
 
a
 
TPI.
 
 
2)  Clarity  regarding  rules  into  investment  into  permitted  businesses   
Summary  of  Problem  Under  the  current  draft  regulations,  it  is  unclear  whether  and  how  a  party  could  invest  in  a  
permittee
 
without
 
taking
 
responsibility
 
for
 
the
 
compliance
 
and
 
actions
 
of
 
that
 
permittee.
 
Given
 
the
 
lack
 
of
 
traditional
 
investment
 
vehicles
 
available
 
in
 
the
 
space,
 
such
 
ambiguity
 
could
 
lock
 
needed
 
capital,
 
like
 
friends
 
and
 
family
 
investments,
 
out
 
of
 
local
 
operations.
 
 
Suggested  Amendments  re  Investment   
Original  Text:    7.35.2.1  GENERAL  PERMITTEE  REQUIREMENTS:   A.  Compliance  with  applicable  laws:  A  permittee  shall  comply  with  all  applicable  state,  
tribal,
 
and
 
local
 
laws,
 
regulations,
 
and
 
ordinances,
 
including
 
requirements
 
concerning
 
agriculture,
 
environmental
 
health,
 
building
 
and
 
occupancy,
 
fire
 
safety,
 
zoning,
 
and
 
worker
 
safety.
 B.  Dual  ownership  prohibited:  A  person  who  holds  an  ownership  interest  in  a  permittee  
shall
 
not
 
hold
 
an
 
ownership
 
interest
 
in
 
any
 
other
 
permittee.
 C.  Permits  non-transferable:  A  permit  shall  not  be  transferred  by  sale,  assignment,  or  
otherwise.
 
A
 
permit
 
that
 
is
 
transferred
 
shall
 
be
 
invalid.
 D.  Transfer  of  actual  control  prohibited:  An  applicant  or  permittee  shall  not  transfer  
actual
 
control
 
of
 
the
 
applicant
 
or
 
permittee
 
to
 
any
 
person
 
using
 
a
 
management,
 
consulting,
 
or
 
intellectual
 
property
 
agreement,
 
or
 
by
 
any
 
other
 
means.
 
A
 
transfer
 
of
 
actual
 
control
 
shall
 
invalidate
 
an
 
associated
 
permit.
 E.  Nominee,  straw,  and  proxy  ownership  prohibited:  A  person  shall  not  apply  for  or  hold  
a
 
permit
 
if
 
any
 
ownership
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permit
 
is
 
nominal
 
or
 
without
 
the
 
benefits
 
and
 
risks
 
of
 
genuine
 
ownership
 
or
 
control.
 F.  Record  of  financial  interests:  Permittees  shall  create  and  maintain  complete  lists  of  all  
individuals
 
and
 
legal
 
entities
 
that
 
hold
 
a
 
financial
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee
 
or
 
the
 
operations
 
of
 
the
 
permittee,
 
including
 
contact
 
information
 
for
 
each
 
individual
 
or
 
entity
 
and
 
a
 
description
 
of
 
their
 
financial
 
interest.
 
Applicants
 
and
 
permittees
 
shall
 
provide
 
the
 
information
 
required
 
by
 
this
 
section
 
to
 
the
 
department
 
within
 
15
 
calendar
 
days
 
of
 
the
 
department’s
 
written
 
request
 
for
 
such
 
information.
 
If
 
a
 
legal
 
entity
 
holds
 
a
 
financial
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee
 
or
 
the
 
permittee’s
 
operations
 
within
 
the
 
medical
 
psilocybin
 
program,
 
the
 
following
 
individuals
 
within
 
the
 
legal
 
entity
 
shall
 
be
 
deemed
 
to
 
also
 
hold
 
a
 
financial
 
interest:
 (1)  For  limited  partnerships,  each  general  partner  in  the  limited  partnership;  (2)  For  limited  liability  companies,  each  manager  and  managing  member  of  the  limited  
liability
 
company;
 (3)  For  for-profit  corporations,  each  principal  officer  of  the  corporation;  and  (4)  For  non-profit  entities,  each  principal  officer  of  the  entity.  [7.35.2.9  NMAC  -  N,  x/xx/2026]   Suggested  Amendment:  
8  
===== PAGE 45 =====
 
 7.35.2.2  GENERAL  PERMITTEE  REQUIREMENTS:   A.  Compliance  with  applicable  laws.  A  permittee  shall  comply  with  all  applicable  federal,  
state,
 
tribal,
 
and
 
local
 
laws,
 
regulations,
 
and
 
ordinances,
 
including
 
requirements
 
concerning
 
agriculture,
 
environmental
 
health,
 
building
 
and
 
occupancy,
 
fire
 
safety,
 
zoning,
 
and
 
worker
 
safety.
 
Each
 
TPI
 
shall
 
bear
 
responsibility
 
for
 
the
 
permittee's
 
compliance
 
therewith.
 
 B.  Dual  Participation  Prohibited.  A  TPI  with  respect  to  a  permittee  shall  not  hold  an  ownership  
interest
 
in,
 
exercise
 
actual
 
control
 
over,
 
or
 
qualify
 
as
 
a
 
TPI
 
with
 
respect
 
to
 
any
 
other
 
permittee.
 
For
 
purposes
 
of
 
this
 
section,
 
ownership
 
or
 
participation
 
held
 
indirectly
 
through
 
an
 
intermediary
 
entity,
 
trust,
 
or
 
nominee
 
shall
 
be
 
treated
 
as
 
direct
 
ownership
 
or
 
participation.
2
 
 C.  Transfer  of  Permit  Prohibited.  A  permit  may  not  be  transferred  by  sale,  assignment,  operation  
of
 
law,
 
or
 
any
 
other
 
means
 
without
 
approval
 
by
 
the
 
Department.
 
Any
 
purported
 
transfer
 
of
 
a
 
permit
 
without
 
Department
 
approval
 
shall
 
render
 
the
 
permit
 
invalid.
 
For
 
purposes
 
of
 
this
 
section,
 
a
 
change
 
in
 
the
 
TPI(s)
 
of
 
a
 
permittee,
 
including
 
a
 
change
 
resulting
 
from
 
a
 
transfer
 
of
 
ownership
 
interest,
 
a
 
change
 
in
 
actual
 
control,
 
or
 
a
 
restructuring
 
of
 
the
 
permittee's
 
legal
 
form,
  
constitutes
 
a
 
transfer
 
of
 
the
 
permit
 
and
 
requires
 
prior
 
Department
 
approval.
 
 D.  Transfer  of  Actual  Control  Prohibited.  An  applicant  or  permittee  shall  not  transfer  Actual  
Control
 
of
 
the
 
applicant
 
or
 
permittee
 
to
 
any
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
who
 
has
 
not
 
been
 
disclosed
 
to
 
and
 
approved
 
by
 
the
 
Department
 
as
 
a
 
TPI.
 
Actual
 
control
 
shall
 
not
 
be
 
transferred
 
through
 
a
 
management,
 
consulting,
 
intellectual
 
property,
 
financing,
 
or
 
services
 
agreement,
 
or
 
by
 
any
 
other
 
means,
 
formal
 
or
 
informal,
 
written
 
or
 
oral.
 
A
 
transfer
 
of
 
Actual
 
Control
 
that
 
has
 
not
 
been
 
approved
 
by
 
the
 
Department
 
shall
 
invalidate
 
the
 
associated
 
permit
 
and
 
may
 
constitute
 
a
 
separate
 
violation
 
subject
 
to
 
civil
 
penalty.
 
For
 
purposes
 
of
 
this
 
section,
 
"transfer
 
of
 
Actual
 
Control"
 
includes
 
any
 
arrangement
 
by
 
which
 
a
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
acquires
 
the
 
capacity
 
to
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control
 
as
 
defined
 
herein,
 
regardless
 
of
 
whether
 
Actual
 
Control
 
has
 
been
 
exercised.
 E.  Exception,  Succession.  As  part  of  an  application  for  a  permit  under  these  regulations,  and  as  a  
continuous
 
obligation
 
for
 
maintaining
 
such
 
permit,
 
a
 
permitee
 
is
 
required
 
to
 
maintain
 
a
 
succession
 
plan
 
approved
 
by
 
the
 
Department
 
that
 
provides
 
for
 
the
 
transfer
 
of
 
a
 
TPI’s
 
interest
 
and
 
Actual
 
Control
 
in
 
the
 
event
 
of
 
the
 
death
 
or
 
dissolution
 
of
 
each
 
TPI.
 
A
 
transfer
 
under
 
a
 
Department-approved
 
succession
 
plan
 
is
 
not
 
prohibited
 
by
 
these
 
regulations.
 
 F.  Disguised  Control  Prohibited.  No  person  or  entity  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  exercise,  
acquire,
 
or
 
maintain
 
Actual
 
Control
 
over
 
a
 
permittee
 
through
 
any
 
arrangement,
 
device,
 
or
 
scheme
 
designed
 
to
 
conceal
 
that
 
control
 
from
 
the
 
Department
 
or
 
to
 
avoid
 
the
 
disclosure,
 
suitability,
 
and
 
compliance
 
obligations
 
applicable
 
to
 
a
 
TPI.
 
The
 
substance
 
of
 
a
 
person's
 
or
 
entity’s
 
relationship
 
with
 
a
 
permittee
 
governs;
 
formal
 
title,
 
documented
 
role,
 
and
 
the
 
nominal
 
terms
 
of
 
any
 
agreement
 
are
 
not
 
determinative.
 
A
 
finding
 
that
 
Actual
 
Control
 
over
 
a
 
permittee
 
is
 
2
 Note:  Some  examples  of  regulations  include  a  waiver  provision  like  the  following:  
 
The
 
Department
 
may
 
grant
 
a
 
waiver
 
upon
 
written
 
application
 
demonstrating
 
that
 
the
 
dual
 
participation
 
does
 
not
 
create
 
a
 
risk
 
of
 
supply
 
concentration,
 
regulatory
 
evasion,
 
or
 
conflict
 
of
 
interest
 
inconsistent
 
with
 
the
 
Program's
 
public
 
health
 
objectives.
 
 
Authors
 
recognize
 
that
 
waiver
 
is
 
an
 
issue
 
that
 
is
 
deeply
 
personal
 
to
 
how
 
states
 
want
 
to
 
spend
 
their
 
resources,
 
and
 
leave
 
that
 
issue
 
to
 
the
 
Department.
  
9  
===== PAGE 46 =====
 
or  has  been  disguised  in  violation  of  this  section  shall  constitute  grounds  for  permit  denial,  
suspension,
 
or
 
revocation.
 
The
 
Department
 
shall
 
designate
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
found
 
to
 
be
 
exercising
 
disguised
 
control
 
as
 
a
 
TPI,
 
subject
 
to
 
all
 
obligations
 
and
 
liabilities
 
attendant
 
to
 
that
 
status,
 
including
 
compliance
 
responsibility
 
for
 
violations
 
occurring
 
during
 
the
 
period
 
of
 
disguised
 
control.
 
Entering
 
into
 
or
 
maintaining
 
an
 
arrangement
 
prohibited
 
by
 
this
 
section
 
is
 
a
 
separate
 
violation
 
that
 
may
 
be
 
subject
 
to
 
civil
 
penalty,
 
regardless
 
of
 
whether
 
any
 
other
 
violation
 
of
 
the
 
permittee's
 
obligations
 
has
 
occurred.
 
Disguised
 
control
 
includes,
 
without
 
limitation,
 
any
 
of
 
the
 
following
 
arrangements
 
where
 
the
 
purpose
 
or
 
effect
 
is
 
to
 
enable
 
a
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
to
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control
 
without
 
disclosure:
 
1.  Holding  an  ownership,  economic,  or  governance  interest  in  a  permittee  through  a  
nominee,
 
straw
 
party,
 
proxy,
 
or
 
intermediary
 
entity
 
whose
 
identity
 
is
 
disclosed
 
in
 
place
 
of
 
the
 
person
 
exercising
 
actual
 
control;
 2.  Entering  into  a  financing,  loan,  or  debt  instrument  that  includes  operational  covenants,  
consent
 
rights,
 
default
 
triggers,
 
or
 
other
 
terms
 
that
 
give
 
the
 
financing
 
party
 
the
 
capacity
 
to
 
direct
 
the
 
management,
 
policies,
 
or
 
operations
 
of
 
the
 
permittee,
 
whether
 
or
 
not
 
that
 
capacity
 
has
 
been
 
exercised;
 3.  Entering  into  a  management,  consulting,  services,  intellectual  property,  supply,  or  
licensing
 
agreement
 
that
 
grants
 
the
 
counterparty
 
authority
 
over
 
the
 
permittee's
 
operations,
 
personnel,
 
compliance
 
functions,
 
or
 
strategic
 
decisions
 
to
 
a
 
degree
 
that
 
would
 
constitute
 
actual
 
control
 
if
 
held
 
by
 
a
 
disclosed
 
owner
 
or
 
officer;
 4.  Executing  side  agreements,  oral  understandings,  or  undisclosed  amendments  that  alter  
the
 
governance
 
rights,
 
economic
 
terms,
 
or
 
operational
 
authority
 
established
 
in
 
documents
 
filed
 
with
 
or
 
disclosed
 
to
 
the
 
Department;
 5.  Distributing  ownership  interests,  voting  rights,  or  governance  authority  across  two  or  
more
 
persons
 
and/or
 
entities
 
acting
 
in
 
concert
 
in
 
a
 
manner
 
designed
 
to
 
ensure
 
that
 
no
 
single
 
person
 
or
 
entity's
 
disclosed
 
interest
 
appears
 
to
 
satisfy
 
Actual
 
Control,
 
while
 
collectively
 
those
 
persons
 
and/or
 
entities
 
exercise
 
Actual
 
Control;
 
or
 6.  Holding  a  contingent  right,  including  an  option,  warrant,  convertible  instrument,  or  debt  
acceleration
 
clause,
 
that,
 
upon
 
exercise
 
or
 
trigger,
 
would
 
transfer
 
Actual
 
Control
 
to
 
an
 
undisclosed
 
or
 
unapproved
 
person
 
or
 
entity.
 Nothing  in  this  section  prohibits  a  permittee  from  entering  into  commercially  reasonable  
financing,
 
service,
 
or
 
operational
 
agreements
 
on
 
arm's-length
 
terms
 
that
 
do
 
not
 
confer
 
Actual
 
Control
 
to
 
the
 
counterparty.
 G.  Record  of  financial  interests.  A  permittee  shall  create  and  maintain  a  complete,  current,  
and
 
accurate
 
record
 
of
 
all
 
persons
 
and
 
legal
 
entities
 
that
 
hold
 
a
 
present
 
financial
 
interest
 
and/or
 
convertible
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee.
 
The
 
record
 
shall
 
include,
 
for
 
each
 
such
 
person
 
or
 
entity:
 
full
 
legal
 
name
 
and
 
contact
 
information;
 
the
 
nature,
 
form,
 
and
 
approximate
 
value
 
of
 
the
 
financial
 
interest;
 
whether
 
the
 
person
 
or
 
entity
 
is
 
a
 
TPI
 
or
 
Minority
 
Participant;
 
and
 
a
 
description
 
of
 
whether
 
the
 
financial
 
interest
 
is
 
present
 
or
 
subject
 
to
 
any
 
contingent
 
rights
 
to
 
acquire
 
or
 
expand
 
a
 
financial
 
interest,
 
including
 
options,
 
warrants,
 
and
 
convertible
 
instruments.
 
The
 
permittee
 
shall
 
provide
 
the
 
information
 
required
 
by
 
this
 
section
 
to
 
the
 
Department
 
within
 
15
 
calendar
 
days
 
of
 
a
 
written
 
request.
 
The
 
record
 
shall
 
be
 
updated
 
within
 
30
 
days
 
of
 
any
 
material
 
change.
  
10  
===== PAGE 47 =====
 
Where  a  legal  entity  holds  a  financial  interest  in  a  permittee  or  the  permittee's  operations,  the  
following
 
persons
 
within
 
that
 
entity
 
are
 
deemed
 
to
 
also
 
hold
 
a
 
financial
 
interest
 
and
 
must
 
be
 
individually
 
disclosed:
 
  1.  For  limited  partnerships:  each  general  partner;    2.  For  limited  liability  companies:  each  manager  and  managing  member;    3.  For  for-profit  corporations:  each  principal  officer;    4.  For  non-profit  entities:  each  principal  officer;  and    5.  For  trusts:  each  trustee  and,  where  the  trust  is  revocable,  each  settlor.  Where  a  trust  
holds
 
an
 
interest
 
of
 
20%
 
or
 
more,
 
each
 
beneficiary
 
with
 
a
 
vested
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
trust
 
must
 
also
 
be
 
disclosed.
  The  look-through  obligation  imposed  by  this  section  applies  at  each  level  of  a  multi-tier  
ownership
 
structure.
 
Where
 
an
 
entity
 
that
 
holds
 
a
 
financial
 
interest
 
in
 
the
 
permittee
 
is
 
itself
 
owned
 
or
 
controlled
 
by
 
one
 
or
 
more
 
additional
 
entities,
 
the
 
Department
 
may
 
require
 
disclosure
 
of
 
the
 
persons
 
exercising
 
actual
 
control
 
at
 
each
 
tier
 
until
 
the
 
natural
 
persons
 
who
 
are
 
the
 
ultimate
 
beneficial
 
owners
 
and
 
controllers
 
of
 
the
 
permittee
 
have
 
been
 
identified.
  Why  consider  an  amendment?    By  tying  the  dual  ownership  prohibition  to  TPI  status  rather  than  any  ownership  interest,  the  
amendment
 
allows
 
passive
 
minority
 
investment
 
across
 
multiple
 
permittees
 
while
 
still
 
preventing
 
any
 
single
 
person
 
from
 
controlling
 
more
 
than
 
one
 
permitted
 
business.
 
This
 
directly
 
addresses
 
the
 
concern
 
about
 
sophisticated
 
investors
 
using
 
investments
 
in
 
multiple
 
operations
 
as
 
a
 
vehicle
 
for
 
consolidating
 
influence
 
over
 
the
 
industry
 
while
 
preserving
 
the
 
ability
 
of
 
legitimate
 
investors
 
to
 
support
 
multiple
 
permittees.
 
  The  original  provision  broadly  prohibited  any  transfer  of  actual  control  through  management,  
consulting,
 
or
 
intellectual
 
property
 
agreements.
 
While
 
the
 
intent
 
was
 
sound,
 
the
 
provision
 
created
 
compliance
 
uncertainty
 
for
 
legitimate
 
arrangements,
 
such
 
as
 
shared
 
services
 
agreements
 
between
 
related
 
entities.
 
Likewise,
 
the
 
lack
 
of
 
a
 
succession
 
provision
 
created
 
significant
 
liability
 
concerns
 
for
 
spouses,
 
children,
 
and
 
others
 
who
 
may
 
be
 
left
 
with
 
possession
 
of
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
 
cultivation
 
facilities
 
and
 
no
 
legal
 
permit
 
in
 
the
 
case
 
of
 
a
 
TPI’s
 
death.
 
  The  revised  framework  addresses  the  underlying  undue  influence  concerns  while  protecting  
legitimate
 
investors,
 
friends
 
and
 
family,
 
and
 
business
 
partners.
 
No
 
person
 
should
 
worry
 
that
 
if
 
their
 
spouse
 
or
 
business
 
partner
 
dies,
 
or
 
if
 
an
 
entity
 
dissolves
 
through
 
no
 
fault
 
of
 
their
 
own,
 
that
 
they
 
are
 
suddenly
 
and
 
irrevocably
 
in
 
possession
 
of
 
Schedule
 
I
 
cultivation
 
facilities
 
with
 
no
 
legal
 
protection.
 
  The  disguised  control  provision  does  the  core  work  of  the  predatory  financing  protections.  It  
prohibits
 
any
 
arrangement
 
(regardless
 
of
 
its
 
form)
 
through
 
which
 
a
 
person
 
who
 
is
 
not
 
a
 
TPI
 
exercises
 
actual
 
control
 
over
 
a
 
permittee.
 
By
 
framing
 
the
 
prohibition
 
around
 
function
 
rather
 
than
 
form,
 
the
 
amendment
 
closes
 
the
 
drafting
 
gaps
 
that
 
sophisticated
 
actors
 
would
 
otherwise
 
exploit.
 
The
 
suggested
 
amendment
 
also
 
expressly
 
allows
 
minority
 
investment
 
while
 
making
 
clear
 
that
 
investment
 
cannot
 
be
 
a
 
vehicle
 
for
 
back-channel
 
control.
  3)   Overall  Compliance  Feasibility  and  Clarity  
11  
===== PAGE 48 =====
 
Summary  of  Problem:   The  draft  regulations  establish  requirements  for  product  traceability,  food  safety,  and  
contaminant
 
testing
 
that
 
are
 
essential
 
to
 
patient
 
safety
 
in
 
the
 
regulated
 
access
 
program,
 
and
 
we
 
support
 
their
 
inclusion.
 
However,
 
in
 
certain
 
sections
 
the
 
draft
 
regulations
 
may
 
exceed
 
what
 
patient
 
safety
 
requires,
 
and
 
in
 
others
 
they
 
fail
 
to
 
provide
 
operators
 
with
 
a
 
clear,
 
administrable
 
compliance
 
standard.
 
Both
 
problems
 
carry
 
real
 
costs.
 
Overly
 
burdensome
 
or
 
redundant
 
testing
 
requirements
 
will
 
drive
 
up
 
production
 
costs
 
of
 
medical
 
psilocybin
 
that
 
will
 
ultimately
 
be
 
passed
 
on
 
to
 
patients,
 
or
 
absorbed
 
by
 
the
 
state
 
and
 
deplete
 
the
 
Treatment
 
Equity
 
Fund.
 
And
 
where
 
compliance
 
standards
 
are
 
vague,
 
operators
 
cannot
 
reliably
 
meet
 
them,
 
creating
 
enforcement
 
uncertainty
 
and
 
legal
 
exposure
 
for
 
good-faith
 
participants
 
in
 
the
 
program.
  Recommended  Action:   
On  cost  feasibility:  We  recommend  that  the  Department  conduct  and  publish  a  cost  analysis  of  
the
 
testing
 
and
 
production
 
requirements
 
as
 
currently
 
drafted
 
before
 
the
 
regulations
 
are
 
finalized.
 
It
 
is
 
likely
 
that
 
some
 
requirements
 
will
 
need
 
to
 
be
 
recalibrated
 
as
 
the
 
program
 
matures.
 
We
 
therefore
 
also
 
recommend
 
that
 
the
 
Department
 
build
 
implementation
 
review
 
metrics
 
into
 
the
 
program
 
from
 
the
 
outset
 
—
 
tracking
 
testing
 
costs
 
and
 
contaminant
 
presence
 
data
 
over
 
time
 
with
 
an
 
explicit
 
eye
 
toward
 
long-term
 
feasibility
 
—
 
so
 
that
 
the
 
regulatory
 
framework
 
can
 
be
 
adjusted
 
based
 
on
 
evidence
 
rather
 
than
 
crisis.
 
On  compliance  clarity:  Where  the  draft  regulations  set  compliance  standards  that  are  
ambiguous
 
or
 
undefined,
 
operators
 
are
 
left
 
to
 
guess
 
at
 
what
 
conduct
 
will
 
satisfy
 
the
 
requirement.
 
This
 
creates
 
inequitable
 
enforcement
 
—
 
operators
 
with
 
more
 
resources
 
can
 
obtain
 
legal
 
guidance;
 
those
 
without
 
cannot
 
—
 
and
 
exposes
 
good-faith
 
operators
 
to
 
disciplinary
 
action
 
for
 
conduct
 
that
 
reasonable
 
actors
 
could
 
interpret
 
as
 
compliant.
 
We
 
recommend
 
that
 
the
 
Department
 
review
 
the
 
draft
 
regulations
 
for
 
undefined
 
compliance
 
standards
 
and
 
either
 
specify
 
the
 
required
 
conduct
 
directly
 
in
 
the
 
regulatory
 
text
 
or
 
commit
 
to
 
publishing
 
compliance
 
guidance
 
alongside
 
the
 
final
 
regulations.
 
The  following  amendment  illustrates  the  problem  and  our  recommended  approach:  
Original  Text:  
7.35.2.1(B)  Wastage  of  psilocybin  or  psilocybin  products  shall  be  accomplished  by  destroying,  
combining,
 
or
 
otherwise
 
incorporating
 
the
 
psilocybin
 
or
 
psilocybin
 
product
 
into
 
other
 
material
 
making
 
it
 
unusable.
 
Suggested  Amendment:  
7.35.2.1(B)  Wastage  of  psilocybin  or  psilocybin  products  shall  be  accomplished  by  destroying  
(by
 
heat
 
treatment,
 
freeze
 
treatment,
 
or
 
other
 
means
 
rendering
 
the
 
substance
 
biologically
 
inactive)
,
 
combining,
 
or
 
otherwise
 
incorporating
 
the
 
psilocybin
 
or
 
psilocybin
 
product
 
into
 
other
 
material
 
making
 
it
 
unusable.
 
12  
===== PAGE 49 =====
 
Why  consider  an  amendment?   
Where  the  original  draft  regulations  prescribe  wastage  by  “destroying”  the  product,  it  does  not  
prescribe
 
what
 
means
 
of
 
destruction
 
are
 
permitted,
 
leaving
 
cultivators
 
to
 
guess
 
what
 
process
 
of
 
destruction
 
is
 
permitted.
 
Consultation
 
with
 
Oregon
 
and
 
Colorado
 
state
 
program
 
operators
 
suggest
 
that
 
heat
 
or
 
freeze
 
treatment
 
is
 
a
 
viable,
 
cost
 
conscious
 
means
 
of
 
product
 
wastage.
 
 
Original  Text  
7.35.2.10(A)  GENERAL  PRODUCER  REQUIREMENTS:  
 
A.
 
A
 
producer
 
shall
 
[...]
 
Suggested  Amendment   
7.35.2.1  GENERAL  PRODUCER  REQUIREMENTS:  [insert  preceding  section]  A.  A  “producer”  is:  (1)  An  LLC,  Corporation,  or  Nonprofit  Corporation  properly  authorized  to  
do
 
business
 
in
 
the
 
State
 
of
 
New
 
Mexico,
 
 (2)  Who  has  been  granted  the  appropriate  license  under  the  Medical  
Psilocybin
 
Program
 
to
 
cultivate
 
psilocybin
 
 (3)  Who  is  engaged  in  the  cultivation  of  psilocybin  on  the  premises  
permitted
 
by
 
such
 
license,
 
and
 (4)  Who  meets  all  of  the  requirements  for  maintaining  such  license.    A  producer  may  hold  a  license  under  New  Mexico’s  cannabis  regulations  (INSERT  CITE)  that  
authorizes
 
cannabis-related
 
activities
 
at
 
the
 
same
 
location
 
as
 
the
 
producer’s
 
psilocybin
 
production
 
location,
 
provided
 
that
 
the
 
producer:
 (1)  Owns  the  land  on  which  the  production  of  cannabis  and  psilocybin  takes  place,  or  
(INSERT
 
REVISED
 
LANDLORD
 
ATTESTATION
 
LANGUAGE,
 
ADDRESSED
 
BELOW).
 
  If  a  producer  who  holds  a  license  under  New  Mexico’s  cannabis  regulations  (INSERT  CITE)  and  
under
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program
 
has
 
one
 
of
 
those
 
licenses
 
properly
 
revoked
 
under
 
New
 
Mexico
 
law,
 
the
 
other
 
license
 
shall
 
be
 
automatically
 
revoked.
 
  Why  consider  an  amendment?   
The  draft  regulations  at  7.35.2.10(A)  set  out  what  a  producer  is  required  to  do,  but  do  not  
explicitly
 
define
 
who
 
is
 
eligible
 
to
 
become
 
a
 
producer.
 
This
 
gap
 
creates
 
compliance
 
uncertainty
 
at
 
the
 
threshold
 
of
 
program
 
participation.
 
Operators
 
cannot
 
reliably
 
assess
 
their
 
eligibility
 
before
 
investing
 
in
 
an
 
application,
 
and
 
the
 
Department
 
lacks
 
a
 
clear
 
regulatory
 
basis
 
for
 
consistent
 
eligibility
 
determinations.
 
A  related  ambiguity  concerns  dual  licensure.  The  draft  regulations  do  not  address  whether  a  
cultivator
 
currently
 
licensed
 
under
 
New
 
Mexico's
 
cannabis
 
program
 
may
 
also
 
hold
 
a
 
producer
 
license
 
under
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program.
 
This
 
silence
 
is
 
likely
 
to
 
create
 
unnecessary
 
13  
===== PAGE 50 =====
 
barriers  for  a  class  of  operators  who  are  among  the  best  positioned  to  participate  in  the  
psilocybin
 
program:
 
cannabis
 
cultivators
 
already
 
have
 
compliance
 
infrastructure,
 
existing
 
relationships
 
with
 
state
 
regulators,
 
and
 
demonstrated
 
capacity
 
to
 
operate
 
in
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I-adjacent
 
regulated
 
environment.
 
 
4)   Other  Equity  and  Access  Issues   
Summary  of  Problem:  
The  draft  regulation  at  7.35.2.8(A)(9)  requires  applicants  to  provide  "proof  of  ownership  of  a  
facility,
 
or
 
written
 
approval
 
from
 
the
 
owner
 
to
 
cultivate
 
psilocybin
 
on
 
the
 
premise."
 
While
 
we
 
understand
 
the
 
Department's
 
interest
 
in
 
ensuring
 
that
 
operators
 
have
 
secure,
 
stable
 
access
 
to
 
their
 
cultivation
 
sites,
 
the
 
written
 
approval
 
requirement
 
as
 
drafted
 
creates
 
significant
 
practical
 
barriers
 
and
 
unintended
 
risks.
 
Landlords,  even  those  who  are  supportive  of  their  tenants  and  of  the  Program,  are  unlikely  to  
provide
 
written
 
approval
 
to
 
engage
 
in
 
conduct
 
that
 
remains
 
federally
 
illegal
 
on
 
their
 
premises.
 
Such
 
an
 
attestation
 
would
 
amount
 
to
 
written
 
proof
 
in
 
a
 
legally
 
binding
 
document
 
of
 
aiding
 
and
 
abetting
 
the
 
manufacture
 
of
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
,
 
exposing
 
even
 
the
 
most
 
well-intentioned
 
and
 
supportive
 
landlord
 
to
 
civil
 
and
 
criminal
 
liability.
 
The
 
requirement
 
also
 
creates
 
an
 
opening
 
for
 
exploitation.
 
Landlords
 
who
 
understand
 
that
 
a
 
written
 
approval
 
is
 
a
 
regulatory
 
prerequisite
 
may
 
use
 
that
 
leverage
 
to
 
extract
 
unfair
 
terms
 
or
 
higher
 
rent
 
from
 
tenants
 
seeking
 
to
 
operate
 
in
 
the
 
program.
 
Original  Text:   
7.35.2.8A(9)...proof  of  ownership  of  the  facility,  or  written  approval  from  the  owner  to  cultivate  
psilocybin
 
on
 
the
 
premises;
  Suggested  Amendment:    7.35.2.8A(9)...proof  of  ownership  of  a  facility,  a  lease  agreement  that  adequately  protects  the  
right
 
of
 
the
 
program
 
licensee
 
to
 
participate
 
in
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program,
 
or
 
written
 
approval
 
from
 
the
 
owner
 
to
 
participate
 
in
 
the
 
Program.
 
Such
 
lease
 
or
 
approval
 
may
 
be
 
contingent
 
upon
 
the
 
permittee’s
 
continued
 
compliance
 
with
 
Program
 
requirements.
 
  Why  consider  an  amendment?   
The  suggested  amendment  addresses  these  concerns  by  replacing  the  written  approval  
requirement
 
with
 
three
 
alternatives
 
that
 
provide
 
equivalent
 
regulatory
 
assurance
 
without
 
requiring
 
landlords
 
to
 
attest
 
to
 
aiding
 
and
 
abetting
 
federally
 
illegal
 
activity
.
 
Under
 
the
 
amended
 
language,
 
an
 
applicant
 
could
 
satisfy
 
the
 
requirement
 
by
 
providing
 
either
 
proof
 
of
 
ownership,
 
a
 
lease
 
agreement
 
that
 
adequately
 
protects
 
the
 
applicant's
 
right
 
to
 
participate
 
in
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program,
 
or
 
an
 
attestation
 
allowing
 
for
 
Program
 
participation
 
rather
 
than
 
requiring
 
a
 
landlord
 
to
 
attest
 
that
 
the
 
permitee
 
may
 
cultivate
 
psilocybin
 
on
 
the
 
property
 
regardless
 
of
 
Program
 
participation.
 
Think
 
of
 
the
 
situation
 
where
 
a
 
permit
 
is
 
revoked.
 
Under
 
the
 
14  
===== PAGE 51 =====
 
current  language,  a  permitee  could  pivot  a  landlord’s  premises  into  illegal  production  relying  on  
the
 
same
 
attestation
 
the
 
Program
 
required
 
to
 
prevent
 
eviction.
 
 
Under  this  amendment,  where  a  landlord's  written  approval  is  still  sought,  the  amendment  
narrows
 
the
 
scope
 
of
 
that
 
approval
 
to
 
participation
 
in
 
a
 
licensed
 
Department
 
of
 
Health
 
program,
 
reducing
 
the
 
landlord's
 
legal
 
exposure
 
while
 
preserving
 
the
 
Department's
 
ability
 
to
 
verify
 
site
 
access.
 
Likewise,
 
the
 
lease
 
agreement
 
pathway
 
reflects
 
established
 
practice
 
in
 
industries
 
that
 
operate
 
legally
 
under
 
state
 
law
 
but
 
remain
 
subject
 
to
 
federal
 
prohibition.
 
In
 
those
 
industries,
 
it
 
is
 
standard
 
for
 
tenants
 
and
 
landlords
 
to
 
negotiate
 
an
 
“anti-illegality
 
waiver,”
 
which
 
is
 
a
 
specialized
 
contract
 
provision
 
through
 
which
 
the
 
landlord
 
voluntarily
 
waives
 
the
 
right
 
to
 
void
 
the
 
lease
 
on
 
the
 
basis
 
of
 
the
 
tenant's
 
state-legal
 
but
 
federally
 
prohibited
 
activities.
 
This
 
waiver
 
protects
 
both
 
parties
 
by
 
giving
 
the
 
operator
 
regulatory
 
certainty
 
and
 
lease
 
security,
 
while
 
giving
 
the
 
landlord
 
a
 
negotiated,
 
clear
 
path
 
to
 
eviction
 
if
 
the
 
leasee
 
fails
 
to
 
comply
 
with
 
the
 
state
 
program
 
both
 
parties
 
rely
 
on
 
to
 
reduce
 
their
 
liability.
 
To
 
support
 
implementation,
 
the
 
Department
 
could
 
publish
 
a
 
model
 
lease
 
clause
 
on
 
its
 
website
 
establishing
 
a
 
baseline
 
standard
 
(i.e.
 
"this
 
level
 
of
 
protection
 
or
 
higher")
 
that
 
landlords
 
and
 
tenants
 
could
 
adapt
 
to
 
their
 
circumstances.
 
Standardizing
 
this
 
requirement
 
across
 
all
 
license
 
categories
 
in
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program,
 
and
 
considering
 
parallel
 
adoption
 
in
 
the
 
cannabis
 
regulatory
 
framework,
 
would
 
create
 
consistency
 
across
 
New
 
Mexico's
 
state-legal
 
but
 
federally
 
prohibited
 
industries
 
and
 
reduce
 
compliance
 
uncertainty
 
for
 
operators
 
and
 
property
 
owners
 
alike.
 
We
 
are
 
happy
 
to
 
provide
 
model
 
clauses
 
if
 
desired.
 
 
5)  Issues  the  Proposed  Regulations  Create  Related  to  Insurance  Coverage  for  Care  
Summary  of  Problem:  
As  New  Mexico's  medically-integrated  psilocybin  program  is  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  country,  it  
must
 
address
 
a
 
regulatory
 
challenge
 
that
 
has
 
no
 
established
 
roadmap:
 
how
 
to
 
structure
 
a
 
care
 
model
 
that
 
preserves
 
insurance
 
coverage
 
for
 
the
 
services
 
patients
 
are
 
already
 
entitled
 
to
 
receive.
 
The
 
Department
 
is,
 
in
 
effect,
 
helping
 
to
 
define
 
a
 
new
 
insurance
 
market.
 
How
 
the
 
Program's
 
components
 
are
 
described
 
in
 
regulation
 
will
 
directly
 
determine
 
what
 
arguments
 
third
 
party
 
payors
 
will
 
use
 
as
 
grounds
 
to
 
deny
 
coverage.
 
Where
 
ambiguity
 
exists,
 
insurers
 
will
 
exploit
 
it,
 
and
 
the
 
resulting
 
costs
 
will
 
fall
 
on
 
patients
 
and
 
providers.
 
As  detailed  in  the  previously  submitted  memo,  Medicaid  Coverage  and  the  Medical  Psilocybin  
Act:
 
Meeting
 
Pre-existing
 
Obligations
 
and
 
Avoiding
 
Discrimination
,
 
the
 
core
 
insurance
 
problem
 
for
 
patients
 
is
 
this:
 
most
 
Medicaid
 
and
 
third-party
 
payer
 
contracts
 
contain
 
provisions
 
that
 
prohibit
 
coverage
 
for
 
services
 
provided
 
in
 
connection
 
with
 
an
 
"unapproved
 
treatment
 
modality."
 
For
 
Psychedelic
 
Assisted
 
Therapy
 
(PAT),
 
the
 
unapproved
 
treatment
 
modality
 
is
 
the
 
actual
 
administration
 
or
 
self-administration
 
of
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance.
 
This
 
prohibition
 
is
 
not
 
new,
 
and
 
it
 
is
 
not
 
unique
 
to
 
psilocybin;
 
it
 
is
 
a
 
standard
 
feature
 
of
 
third-party
 
payor
 
contracts
 
that
 
reflects
 
longstanding
 
refusal
 
to
 
pay
 
for
 
non-FDA
 
approved
 
treatments.
 
This
 
prohibition
 
means
 
that
 
any
 
service
 
the
 
regulations
 
define
 
as
 
part
 
of
 
the
 
administration
 
of
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
 
will
 
likely
 
not
 
be
 
paid
 
for
 
by
 
any
 
insurance,
 
government
 
or
 
private.
 
 
15  
===== PAGE 52 =====
 
Currently,  the  draft  regulations  refer  to  both  the  actual  administration  or  self-administration  of  
psilocybin
 
and
 
the
 
other
 
(usually
 
covered)
 
medical
 
care
 
that
 
happens
 
as
 
the
 
patient
 
experiences
 
the
 
effects
 
of
 
psilocybin
 
as
 
the
 
"administration
 
session."
 
Coverage
 
planning
 
becomes
 
difficult,
 
if
 
not
 
impossible,
 
when
 
unapproved
 
and
 
normally
 
covered
 
components
 
of
 
care
 
are
 
combined
 
in
 
regulatory
 
language.
 
The
 
medical
 
care
 
constituting
 
preparation
 
and
 
integration
 
services
 
(the
 
testing,
 
medication
 
monitoring,
 
medical
 
monitoring,
 
crisis
 
intervention,
 
and
 
behavioral
 
health
 
services
 
that
 
precede
 
and
 
follow
 
administration)
 
are
 
behavioral
 
health
 
services
 
that
 
Medicaid
 
and
 
third-party
 
payers
 
cover
 
in
 
virtually
 
every
 
other
 
clinical
 
context.
 
They
 
should
 
remain
 
coverable
 
here.
 
However,
 
because
 
draft
 
regulations
 
describe
 
these
 
services
 
in
 
ways
 
that
 
tie
 
them
 
to
 
the
 
administration
 
of
 
psilocybin,
 
they
 
create
 
a
 
basis
 
for
 
insurers
 
to
 
treat
 
the
 
entire
 
continuum
 
of
 
care
 
as
 
part
 
of
 
an
 
unapproved
 
treatment
 
modality,
 
and
 
to
 
decline
 
coverage
 
accordingly.
 
This  risk  is  not  hypothetical,  but  rather,  the  predictable  consequence  of  regulatory  language  that  
fails
 
to
 
maintain
 
a
 
clear
 
separation
 
between
 
the
 
components
 
of
 
care
 
that
 
involve
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
 
and
 
those
 
that
 
do
 
not.
 
The
 
solution
 
is
 
not
 
to
 
minimize
 
or
 
obscure
 
the
 
role
 
of
 
psilocybin
 
in
 
the
 
program.
 
The
 
solution
 
is
 
to
 
ensure
 
that
 
the
 
regulatory
 
definitions
 
describing
 
preparation
 
and
 
integration
 
services
 
can
 
stand
 
independently
 
of
 
the
 
administration,
 
so
 
that
 
coverage
 
for
 
those
 
services
 
is
 
not
 
contingent
 
on
 
the
 
resolution
 
of
 
questions
 
about
 
a
 
Schedule
 
I
 
substance.
 
The
 
suggested
 
amendments
 
below
 
are
 
aimed
 
at
 
addressing
 
these
 
issues.
 
 
A  second,  more  downstream  risk  is  also  perpetrated  by  the  current  draft  regulations.  As  the  first  
medically-integrated
 
state
 
psilocybin
 
program
 
in
 
the
 
country,
 
New
 
Mexico
 
faces
 
professional
 
liability
 
questions
 
that
 
have
 
no
 
precedent
 
and
 
no
 
established
 
insurance
 
framework
 
to
 
resolve
 
them.
 
These
 
questions
 
are
 
made
 
more
 
urgent
 
(and
 
more
 
complex)
 
by
 
the
 
fact
 
that
 
New
 
Mexico's
 
Medical
 
Malpractice
 
Act
 
was
 
substantially
 
amended
 
during
 
the
 
2026
 
legislative
 
session,
 
after
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Act
 
was
 
adopted
 
in
 
2025.
 
The
 
regulations
 
must
 
now
 
be
 
read
 
against
 
a
 
liability
 
landscape
 
that
 
has
 
shifted
 
since
 
the
 
underlying
 
statute
 
was
 
written.
 
The  Program  is  dependent  on  clinician  participation.  The  fewer  clinicians  are  willing  to  take  the  
risk
 
of
 
participation,
 
a
 
risk
 
that
 
implicates
 
their
 
clinical
 
licensure,
 
prescriber
 
licensure,
 
and
 
long-term
 
insurability,
 
the
 
less
 
accessible
 
Program
 
care
 
will
 
be.
 
By
 
tying
 
“administration”
 
to
 
the
 
other
 
care
 
a
 
clinician
 
might
 
provide,
 
the
 
regulations
 
increase
 
the
 
chance
 
that
 
a
 
participating
 
clinician
 
may
 
be
 
disciplined,
 
lose
 
licensure,
 
or
 
have
 
their
 
insurance
 
coverage
 
dropped.
 
State
 
programs
 
cannot
 
forget
 
that
 
they
 
do
 
not
 
control
 
or
 
influence
 
every
 
licensing
 
authority
 
or
 
insurance
 
company
 
a
 
clinician
 
is
 
subject
 
to.
 
Clinicians
 
may
 
be
 
licensed
 
in
 
multiple
 
states,
 
hold
 
DEA
 
prescriber
 
authority,
 
or
 
depend
 
on
 
non-local
 
insurers
 
for
 
professional
 
liability
 
protection.
 
A
 
clear
 
separation
 
between
 
Schedule
 
I
 
administration
 
and
 
other
 
care
 
is
 
required
 
to
 
protect
 
the
 
clinicians
 
who,
 
by
 
accepting
 
risk
 
for
 
patient
 
wellbeing,
 
will
 
build
 
this
 
Program.
 
 
The  specific  problem  is  this:  where  regulation  or  statute  describes  the  administration  of  a  
Schedule
 
I
 
substance
 
as
 
the
 
provision
 
of
 
"medical
 
services,"
 
that
 
characterization
 
risks
 
bringing
 
such
 
activities
 
within
 
the
 
scope
 
of
 
the
 
Medical
 
Malpractice
 
Act.
 
This
 
creates
 
a
 
serious
 
coverage
 
gap.
 
Medical
 
malpractice
 
insurance
 
covers
 
claims
 
arising
 
from
 
the
 
provision
 
of
 
medical
 
services,
 
but
 
insurers
 
underwriting
 
those
 
policies
 
did
 
not
 
price,
 
and
 
will
 
not
 
cover,
 
claims
 
arising
 
16  
===== PAGE 53 =====
 
specifically  from  the  administration  of  a  substance  that  remains  federally  illegal  to  possess,  
manufacture,
 
sell,
 
or
 
distribute.
 
Providers
 
could
 
therefore
 
find
 
themselves
 
subject
 
to
 
Medical
 
Malpractice
 
liability
 
obligations
 
for
 
activities
 
that
 
their
 
malpractice
 
insurance
 
will
 
not
 
cover,
 
leaving
 
them
 
personally
 
exposed
 
in
 
the
 
event
 
of
 
a
 
claim.
 
We  recognize  that  some  of  the  professional  liability  issues  identified  in  the  draft  regulations  
come
 
from
 
the
 
language
 
of
 
the
 
MPA
 
itself.
 
Full
 
resolution
 
of
 
those
 
issues
 
may
 
require
 
statutory
 
amendment,
 
and
 
Rudick
 
Law
 
Group
 
is
 
preparing
 
a
 
forthcoming
 
memo
 
on
 
medical
 
malpractice
 
liability
 
under
 
the
 
MPA
 
that
 
will
 
include
 
any
 
such
 
legislative
 
recommendations.
 
However,
 
addressing
 
these
 
issues
 
proactively
 
in
 
the
 
draft
 
regulations
 
(to
 
the
 
extent
 
the
 
statute
 
permits)
 
will
 
provide
 
meaningful
 
clarity
 
for
 
providers
 
now
 
and
 
avoid
 
the
 
need
 
to
 
revise
 
the
 
regulations
 
to
 
conform
 
with
 
future
 
statutory
 
changes
 
that
 
are,
 
in
 
our
 
view,
 
likely
 
necessary.
 
Suggested  Amendments  re  Insurance  Coverage   
Original  Definition:    7.35.2.7.A(2)  “Administration  session”  means  the  therapeutic  session  combined  with  the  
administration
 
of
 
psilocybin.
 
  Suggested  Amendment:    Strike  “Administration  session.”  Instead,  define  “Program,”  “Program  Participant,”  
“Administration,”
 
and
 
“Other
 
Care.”
 
  7.35.2.7.A(2)  “Administration  session”  means  the  therapeutic  session  combined  with  the  
administration
 
of
 
psilocybin.
 
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  "Program"  means  the  New  Mexico  Medical  Psilocybin  
Program
 
established
 
under
 
the
 
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Act.
 
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  “Program  Participant”  means  a  patient  who  receives  
care
 
authorized
 
by
 
the
 
Program
 
from
 
Authorized
 
Providers
 
permitted
 
to
 
administer
 
Program
 
services
 
at
 
the
 
time
 
the
 
patient
 
receives
 
care.
 
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  "Administration"  means  the  act  of  a  Program  Participant  
ingesting
 
psilocybin
 
within
 
a
 
context
 
authorized
 
by
 
the
 
Program,
 
exclusive
 
of
 
any
 
Other
 
Care
 
provided
 
before,
 
during,
 
or
 
after
 
that
 
ingestion.
  (INSERT  APPROPRIATE  CITATION)  "Other  care"  means  all  therapeutic,  clinical,  preparatory,  
and
 
integrative
 
services
 
provided
 
to
 
a
 
Program
 
Participant
 
within
 
the
 
Program
 
other
 
than
 
Administration,
 
including
 
patient
 
assessment,
 
informed
 
consent,
 
preparation
 
sessions,
 
presence
 
and
 
observation
 
during
 
a
 
treatment
 
session,
 
and
 
integration
 
support
 
following
 
administration.
  Why  consider  an  amendment?   
17  
===== PAGE 54 =====
 
 By  combining  therapy  with  the  administration  of  psilocybin  in  this  draft  definition,  we  invite  
Medicaid
 
and
 
other
 
third
 
party
 
payors
 
to
 
decline
 
coverage
 
for
 
behavioral
 
health
 
care
 
they
 
would
 
cover
 
in
 
any
 
other
 
circumstance,
 
creating
 
affordability
 
and
 
access
 
barriers
 
that
 
harm
 
the
 
long-term
 
viability
 
of
 
the
 
state
 
program.
 
These
 
recommended
 
revisions
 
reframe
 
the
 
program
 
components
 
in
 
ways
 
that
 
protect
 
the
 
patient’s
 
best
 
chance
 
at
 
accessible
 
care
 
and
 
protect
 
clinicians
 
from
 
avoidable
 
risk.
 
  If  these  changes  are  adopted,  the  definition  of  “Guide”  will  also  need  to  change.  Currently,  the  
definition
 
of
 
“Guide”
 
invites
 
allegations
 
of
 
the
 
unauthorized
 
practice
 
of
 
medicine,
 
further
 
undermining
 
a
 
clinician
 
who
 
works
 
with
 
Guide’s
 
ability
 
to
 
maintain
 
licensing
 
and
 
insurance
 
while
 
participating
 
in
 
the
 
Program.
 
Moreover,
 
if
 
Guides
 
are
 
providing
 
assisting
 
in
 
the
 
provision
 
of
 
clinical
 
care,
 
there
 
is
 
potential
 
for
 
attempts
 
at
 
tying
 
medical
 
malpractice
 
liability
 
to
 
Guide
 
services.
 
  Original  Definition:    7.35.2.7.G(3)  “Guide”  an  individual  who  completed  training  and  education  approved  by  the  
department
 
to
 
be
 
able
 
to
 
assist
 
practitioners
 
during
 
the
 
administration
 
session
 
and
 
who
 
has
 
been
 
registered
 
with
 
the
 
department.
 
  Suggested  Amendment:   7.35.2.7.G(3)  “Guide”  means  an  individual  who  has  completed  Department-approved  training  
and
 
education
 
and
 
has
 
been
 
registered
 
with
 
the
 
Department,
 
and
 
whose
 
role
 
is
 
limited
 
to
 
providing
 
non-clinical
 
support
 
and
 
presence
 
to
 
a
 
patient
 
preparing
 
for,
 
experiencing
 
the
 
effects
 
of,
 
or
 
integrating
 
the
 
effects
 
of
 
Administration,
 
as
 
allowed
 
by
 
the
 
Program.
 
A
 
Guide
 
does
 
not
 
perform,
 
and
 
shall
 
not
 
be
 
construed
 
to
 
perform,
 
clinical
 
assessment,
 
diagnosis,
 
treatment,
 
or
 
any
 
other
 
act
 
constituting
 
the
 
practice
 
of
 
medicine,
 
nursing,
 
or
 
any
 
other
 
licensed
 
health
 
profession.
 
A
 
Guide
 
does
 
not
 
act
 
under
 
the
 
supervision,
 
direction,
 
or
 
authority
 
of
 
any
 
licensed
 
health
 
care
 
provider,
 
and
 
no
 
provider
 
shall
 
be
 
deemed
 
to
 
have
 
supervisory
 
responsibility
 
over
 
a
 
Guide
 
solely
 
by
 
virtue
 
of
 
their
 
concurrent
 
participation
 
in
 
any
 
part
 
of
 
the
 
Program.
  Why  Consider  an  Amendment?    The  core  problem  with  the  current  definition  is  that  "assist  practitioners  during  the  administration  
session"
 
implies
 
a
 
subordinate
 
clinical
 
relationship
 
that
 
could
 
cut
 
both
 
ways,
 
either
 
exposing
 
guides
 
to
 
malpractice
 
liability
 
for
 
clinical
 
acts
 
they
 
are
 
not
 
licensed
 
to
 
perform,
 
or
 
creating
 
a
 
supervisory
 
relationship
 
that
 
makes
 
the
 
practitioner
 
responsible
 
for
 
the
 
guide's
 
conduct
 
in
 
ways
 
neither
 
party
 
intends.
 There  is  no  reason  that  a  Guide  should  worry  about  medical  malpractice  
suits,
 
or
 
that
 
a
 
Clinician
 
should
 
worry
 
that
 
working
 
with
 
a
 
Guide
 
could
 
undermine
 
their
 
professional
 
security.
 
Guides
 
are
 
not
 
providing
 
clinical
 
services,
 
and
 
the
 
regulations
 
should
 
make
 
that
 
clear.
 
  
18  
===== PAGE 55 =====
 
Original  Definition:    7.35.2.7.M(2)  “Medical  services”  means  services  provided  to  a  patient  in  an  approved  setting  
before,
 
during
 
and
 
after
 
the
 
ingestion
 
of
 
psilocybin
 
and
 
includes
 
a
 
preparation
 
session,
 
an
 
administration
 
session,
 
and
 
an
 
integration
 
session.”
 
  Suggested  Amendment   7.35.2.7.M(2)  "Medical  services"  means  the  clinical  and  therapeutic  services  provided  to  a  
patient
 
by
 
a
 
licensed
 
practitioner
 
within
 
the
 
Program,
 
including
 
patient
 
assessment,
 
diagnosis,
 
testing,
 
medication
 
management,
 
behavioral
 
health
 
services,
 
crisis
 
health
 
services,
 
and
 
the
 
like.
 
Medical
 
services
 
does
 
not
 
include
 
Administration,
 
nor
 
does
 
it
 
include
 
the
 
non-clinical
 
support
 
provided
 
by
 
a
 
Guide.
 
The
 
provision
 
of
 
Medical
 
Services
 
by
 
a
 
practitioner
 
during
 
or
 
proximate
 
to
 
the
 
services
 
provided
 
by
 
a
 
Guide
 
does
 
not
 
automatically
 
create
 
a
 
supervisory
 
relationship
 
between
 
that
 
practitioner
 
and
 
any
 
Guide.
  Why  consider  an  amendment?    The  definition  as  it  is  has  two  problems.  First,  it  collapses  administration  and  other  care  into  a  
single
 
undifferentiated
 
concept.
 
Second,
 
the
 
phrase
 
"medical
 
services"
 
implies
 
a
 
clinical
 
character
 
for
 
all
 
Program
 
services,
 
including
 
Administration.
 
We
 
understand
 
that
 
this
 
definition
 
comes
 
directly
 
from
 
the
 
MPA.
 
However,
 
as
 
explained
 
above,
 
by
 
defining
 
services
 
provided
 
surrounding
 
the
 
ingestion
 
of
 
psilocybin
 
as
 
medical
 
services,
 
the
 
definition
 
creates
 
potential
 
insurance,
 
supervisory,
 
malpractice,
 
and
 
other
 
concerns
 
which
 
will
 
likely
 
reduce
 
clinician
 
participation
 
in
 
the
 
Program.
 
That
 
decline
 
in
 
accessibility
 
can
 
be
 
prevented.
 
 
Conclusion  
New  Mexico  faces  opportunity  and  struggle  as  it  commits  to  serving  patients  through  the  
Medical
 
Psilocybin
 
Program.
 
The
 
suggestions
 
contained
 
herein
 
attempt
 
to
 
ease
 
New
 
Mexico’s
 
future
 
struggles
 
by
 
identifying
 
risk
 
and
 
ways
 
to
 
reduce
 
it.
 
Thank
 
you
 
for
 
your
 
consideration
 
and
 
continued
 
work.
 
We
 
hope
 
to
 
act
  
as
 
a
 
resource
 
to
 
support
 
that
 
work
 
as
 
rulemaking
 
continues.
 
  
19  
===== PAGE 56 =====
Rule 7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment concerning the Medical Psilocybin Program – 
Propagation Regulations                                                                                                                                  
From:  John Starr, Strong Medicine.                                                                                          
JStarr@strongmedicine.com                                                                                                                          
(505) 933-1166                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Date: 23 April 2026 
Submitted electronically to jacob.clark@doh.nm.gov 
 
Comments: 
 
The success of any program resulting from legislation lies in the rule making.  There has 
been broad and diverse participation on behalf of healing practices and, ethical and 
equity concerns, while the practical business concerns had less participation.  This is 
not a criticism, but simply an observation by a businessman, who could not always 
participate himself. The committees have been well organized, staffed well and the 
discussions have been at a high level. The passion for this treatment was obvious from 
the outset. 
 
My concerns have been and continue to be with the ability to justify investment with the 
proposed limitations. It appears that the majority of those interested in the psilocybin 
growing business in NM are small businesses. The rule making should be in favor of 
supporting small business. It is well documented that most small businesses fail due to 
lack of working capital (Investment).  The proposed rules approach is limiting to 
encouraging investment to the extent that significant failures are likely, thus restricting 
access to the product for medical purposes, and sets the stage to having the price of 
the medicine out of reach for many of the patients who need it most. 
 
The recent announcement by the Federal Government to reconsider the Schedule 1 
drug list has added an element of uncertainty that the “investment world” is pushing the 
pause button on any future investment plans.  All these uncertainties beg the question, 
“What safeguards prevent this program from becoming either too expensive for patients 
or too unprofitable for local producers?” 
 
The committee recently provided several documents from committee participants 
addressing the proposed rules.  One of these documents, co-authored by Danali 
Wilson, Esq. and Victoria J Cvitanovic, Esq., recognized many of my concerns 
specifically as to ownership and investment.  Their approach anticipates typical short 
comings in rule making, i.e., ambiguities and conflicts in definitions, and over regulation.  
Their document summarized many of my concerns with the rules, and stated, “The 
rules should not be so broad that they discourage the capital that participants in 
the Program need.” 
 
 
===== PAGE 57 =====
 
I am a businessman, not a medical provider, nor attorney, nor drafter of rules.  I do 
know the risks of starting and owning a business.  I hope, in the spirit of equity, being a 
“businessman” is not seen as a bad thing.   We need individuals to take risks.  We need 
individuals to financially invest in this program.  I hope that these rules can be shaped in 
a manner to provide the protections we all support, without overly restricting the capital 
it takes to make this a successful program. 
 
This is our first and most important concern.  I believe many of the other shortcomings 
of the law will work themselves out during implementation.  The issues I mention above 
speak to the actual potential success of the program and the individuals and companies 
that are interested in taking on the work and investment to bring this important medicine 
to those who need it. 
 
I have never taken part in any type of rulemaking.  It has been a learning experience, 
and I thank you for the opportunity to provide these comments.   
 
 
 
===== PAGE 58 =====
                  Psychedelic Bar Association                      P.O. Box 12     Leadville, CO 80461        Tel:  (303) 915-0658)        www.ThePsychedelicBar.org   
                           Page 1 of 8   
April 24, 2026   New Mexico Department of Health  Medical Psilocybin Program PO Box 26110 Santa Fe, NM, 87502-6110 jacob.clark@doh.nm.gov  VIA EMAIL     RE: Comment on Draft Rule 7.35.2 NMAC  To the New Mexico Department of Health:   The Psychedelic Bar Association (PBA) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit association of lawyers and legal professionals committed to the creation of a world where safe, legal, access to psychedelics brings healing, equity and justice for all. We, the New Mexico Working Group of the PBA, formed in early 2026 to offer issue-area expertise during the development of the state-regulated program in New Mexico. We are eager to support the success of the New Mexico state regulated access program and are grateful for the opportunity to provide feedback on Rule 7.35.2 NMAC. Our feedback covers the following areas:   1. Principles of Regulation 2. Intersections of Medical and Religious Use 3. Federal Tax Consequences  4. Anticipating and Reducing Negative Consequences of Profit Motives  5. Restrictors for Property-Renting Applicants  1.  Principles of Regulation  With the right set and setting, the psilocybin experience consistently ranks among the top 5 most personally meaningful and spiritually significant experiences of a person’s entire life—comparable in importance to the death of a parent or birth of a 
===== PAGE 59 =====
  
   Page 2 of 8   
child.1 We believe it is of paramount significance that New Mexico’s groundbreaking Medical Psilocybin Program be affordable and accessible to everyone who could benefit. Failure to create an affordable and accessible system will deprive low- and middle-income communities of the astonishing health and life outcomes that psilocybin frequently occasions.   The key considerations for a regulatory framework that is designed to affordable and equitable access include:   1. The safeguards must be proportionate to the safety concerns. If the safety requirements are higher than necessary, it will raise the costs to the detriment of low- and middle-income communities. Many of the most important safety concerns can be inexpensively resolved through screening questionnaires that identify potential contraindications. Guides’ supervision need not be by a person with advanced credentialing, as administration sessions are normally “non-directive.” 2. It should be governed by informed consent principles. The potential harms of most psychedelics for most people are lower than but different from alcohol and nicotine, which we trust adults to use responsibly without excessive paternalism. 3. It should embrace or allow psychedelic use in a community-based paradigm, making liberal use of peer support in preparation, administration, and integration services. Peer support and group administration sessions are the best ways to promote affordability, cultural sensitivity, and inclusivity within any “scalable” psychedelic ecosystem. Early research is showing community- based paradigms may even be more efficacious than more clinical paradigms. 4. It should avoid over-regulating psychedelic substances. Oregon provides a cautionary example. A gram of Psilocybe cubensis mushroom under the Oregon Psilocybin Services Act sells for an average of $40-50, and doses commonly range from 3-4 grams. By contrast, unregulated cubensis mushrooms sell for approximately $8/gram. More people will avail themselves of the regulated system if they consider its costs justifiable when compared with the costs of unregulated (i.e., black or grey market) access. Despite the high costs of psilocybin in Oregon’s and Colorado’s programs, the proposed New Mexico testing rules are dramatically more onerous and costly. The harms sought to be avoided by draft rule 7.35.2.19 have not materialized in Oregon or  1 Griffiths R, Richards W, Johnson M, McCann U, Jesse R. Mystical-type experiences occasioned by psilocybin mediate the attribution of personal meaning and spiritual significance 14 months later. J Psychopharmacol. 2008 Aug;22(6):621-32. doi: 10.1177/0269881108094300. Epub 2008 Jul 1. PMID: 18593735; PMCID: PMC3050654 
===== PAGE 60 =====
  
   Page 3 of 8   
Colorado, and appear to be of exaggerated concern in light of the exclusionary impacts it will have on low- and middle-income communities.   Psychedelics are not a conventional Western medicine and do not fit easily into Western models of praxis. Current attempts at combining psychedelics with Western medicine has researchers attempting to induce mystical-type experiences in a doctor’s or therapist’s office. It sounds absurd because it is absurd. Mystical experience has long been the province of religious and Indigenous communities wherein a person leads or facilitates such experiences in the context of a supportive community. Any equitable model of services-based access will allow for services that more closely resemble religious or Indigenous paradigms of access than the traditional models of Western clinical or medical practice. 2.  Intersections of Medical and Religious Use From our perspective, one of the most critical questions facing Medical Psilocybin Act (“MPA”) rulemakers is around what kind of attitude the MPA regulations will express toward religious use cases. While the MPA does not mention the religious use of psilocybin, legal psilocybin access through the MPA co-exists alongside the legal access by sincere religious practitioners in New Mexico; we strongly believe that regulations should acknowledge this and not disregard religious adherent’s claim to legal access.   In 2013, New Mexico adopted broad religious freedoms that allow religious practitioners to use psilocybin and other psychedelics as part of sincere religious exercise. NM Stat § 28-22-3 et seq. Additionally, regardless of the religious freedoms that the State has intentionally enacted, the passage of the MPA has created new federal protections for entheogenic religious practitioners in New Mexico. By passing MPA, New Mexico created a system for granting individualized exceptions to the NM Controlled Substances Act. When a state adopts a system for granting individualized exemptions to any law, the First Amendment to the United States Constitution requires that exemptions to that law also be granted for religious practitioners.2 This means that a state cannot authorize legal access to a drug for medical reasons without also authorizing legal access to that drug3 for religious reasons.  2 See, e.g., Tandon v. Newsom, 593 U.S. 61 (2021); Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo, 592 U.S. _ (2020); Fulton v. City of Philadelphia, 593 U.S. 522 (2021). 3  It is unclear whether allowing the medical use of psilocybin requires New Mexico to allow the religious use of only psilocybin, or whether it would require the State to permit the religious use of any drug covered under the New Mexico Controlled Substances Act. The district court in Jensen, infra, suggested in dicta that it would require allowing the religious use of only the specific drugs that have been legalized for medical use, but that reasoning appears at odds with the U.S. Supreme Court’s decisions in Tandon, supra, which was not raised by the parties in that case. 
===== PAGE 61 =====
  
   Page 4 of 8   
  This issue was recently litigated in Jensen v. Utah County, US Dist. Court for the Dist. of Utah, Case No. 2:24-cv-00887-JNP. In that case, a federal trial-level judge in Utah evaluated whether the Utah Controlled Substances Act was “generally applicable” despite an exception to the Utah CSA that allows health care systems to develop behavior health treatment programs using psilocybin and MDMA. The judge ruled that the Utah CSA was not generally applicable with respect to psilocybin and found that the First Amendment protects religious activities involving psilocybin in Utah. This issue is currently under review at the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals and a favorable ruling is expected for the religious claimants.   While we do not have particular recommendations with respect to this round of draft rules, we urge DOH to be proactive in not undermining or delegitimizing religious practitioners in its policies and regulations. 3.  Sale Restrictions and Federal Tax Consequences Service providers operating under Oregon’s and Colorado's psilocybin programs have encountered a significant federal tax problem arising from Section 280(E) of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 280(E) prohibits any business engaged in the trafficking of a Schedule I controlled substance from deducting ordinary business expenses on their federal taxes. Because psilocybin remains in Schedule I under federal law, businesses with any direct involvement in handling or transferring psilocybin are exposed to this restriction, meaning they pay federal income tax on gross revenue rather than net income, dramatically increasing their effective tax burden. Both Oregon and Colorado operate supervised-use models similar to the one New Mexico is building. In those state programs, psilocybin is not sold directly to program participants through a dispensary model, but is instead transferred to service centers that administer it to participants under supervision. It is precisely this transfer — from producer to service center — that triggers 280(E) exposure for the service center. Operators in both states have attempted to minimize the impact of 280(E) on their businesses by creating separate legal entities to isolate plant-handling activities from their broader business operations, so that 280(E) liability does not contaminate the tax treatment of the entire enterprise. This strategy for managing tax liability has not been evaluated by courts yet, and it is uncertain whether this approach would survive such scrutiny. Even if that approach is ultimately allowed, it is a costly and administratively burdensome strategy that disadvantages smaller operators and adds overhead to an already highly-regulated industry. 
===== PAGE 62 =====
  
   Page 5 of 8   
While the MPA explicitly authorizes Gross Receipts Tax deductions under state law, that provision has no effect on federal tax obligations. New Mexico operators will face the same 280(E) exposure as their counterparts in Oregon and Colorado unless the program is structured to minimize it. As drafted, the regulations replicate the same sale structure that has created these problems elsewhere, and do not take advantage of an opportunity unique to the rulemaking process to build in structural flexibility before the problem materializes. Allowing direct sales from producers to patients, while at an approved location and while under the supervision of a guide, would dramatically reduce the impact of Section 280(E) while also avoiding diversion and related concerns. Proposed Amendments: 7.35.2.10(B)(7): "A producer shall: …Only sell psilocybin or psilocybin products to other producers and to practitioners, or to program participants through the supervised sale and consumption provisions of these regulations; and only otherwise distribute psilocybin or psilocybin products to medical psilocybin testing laboratories, or to department employees for testing in accordance with this rule." [INSERT CITATION] Supervised Sale and Consumption: Direct sale of psilocybin to program participants is permitted only at an approved location on the day of the participant’s administration session. Consumption of psilocybin sold directly to a program participant is permitted only in the presence of a licensed clinician or guide at an approved location on the day of sale, and only for the amounts that are to be consumed by the participant in that administration session. What This Achieves: The proposed amendment introduces a direct participant sale option as an alternative pathway alongside the existing producer-to-practitioner transfer model. Under this pathway, a producer may sell psilocybin directly to a program participant — rather than to a service center — provided that the sale occurs at an approved location on the day of administration and that consumption takes place in the presence of a licensed clinician or guide. The supervised-use character of the program is fully preserved: this is not a dispensary model, and psilocybin cannot be taken off-site or consumed outside of a supervised clinical setting. The tax consequence of this structural change is significant. When the sale runs directly from producer to participant, the service center is not a party to the transfer of the substance and is therefore not engaged in trafficking under Section 280(E). 
===== PAGE 63 =====
  
   Page 6 of 8   
The service center's revenue becomes clearly separable from the medicine-handling transaction, allowing those businesses to deduct ordinary operating expenses and reducing the tax penalty that would otherwise fall on the program's clinical infrastructure.4 This amendment does not require operators to use the direct sale model but it does create an option. Operators who prefer the traditional transfer structure from cultivator to guide may continue to use it. But providing this pathway gives New Mexico's licensed cultivators and healing centers a tool to navigate federal tax exposure that operators in other states have had to engineer around after the fact, at significant cost. Building this flexibility into the regulations now, before the program issues its first licenses, is precisely the kind of forward-looking regulatory design that will determine whether New Mexico's program remains viable and accessible over time. 4.  Anticipating and Reducing Negative Consequences of Profit Motives in the State Program The healing potential of psilocybin is both profound and vulnerable to exploitation. As with any new state-created market, not all who seek to participate will be motivated by concern for the public interest. Some will be motivated primarily by profit, and a smaller number will seek to exploit the program's regulatory gaps for financial gain at the expense of operators, patients, and the program's long-term integrity. It is the responsibility of regulators to design a framework that supports good-faith actors and limits the ability of bad-faith actors to cause harm, and to do so before those actors have the opportunity to entrench themselves in the program's infrastructure. These concerns are exacerbated by New Mexico’s lack of prohibitions around the corporate practice of medicine. As currently drafted, the regulations governing ownership, control, and permit-transfer fall short of that goal in two directions simultaneously. The restrictions are broad enough to burden legitimate arrangements (including friends-and-family investment, minority ownership stakes, and other financing structures that small operators depend on) while leaving the more sophisticated disguised control mechanisms that present the greatest patient safety risk inadequately addressed. This is a foundational gap that will have lasting consequences for the program if it is not corrected before the first permits are issued.  4 This amendment specifically addresses federal tax consequences, which is far from the only liability consideration for operators under the state program. For other liability reasons, it may still be advisable for the service center to create and operate under separate legal entities for the distinct scope of services provided. 
===== PAGE 64 =====
  
   Page 7 of 8   
7.35.2.9 B. prohibits a person from holding an ownership interest in a permittee shall not hold an ownership interest in any other permittee. We support limiting the permittees to holding an interest in only one producer permit, and not allowing a person to hold interests in both producer and testing permits. However, once additional regulations are adopted concerning psilocybin administration and other aspects of the program, we hope that DOH will not prohibit producers from also functioning as a guide or serving other roles within the program.  Draft rule 7.35.2.26 (C)(m) subjects permittees to disciplinary action if DOH finds that a permittee has passive investors who do not enjoy “the customary incidents of ownership.” This is an unclear standard that would appear to penalize permittees who have passive investors in their operations that do not carry decision-making authority. This would be problematic in light of the available pool of funding that is available to federally-illegal businesses. 7.35.2.26 (C)(m):  “Disciplinary action may be taken against a permittee or a permit-applicant. Disciplinary action may consist of revocation, or suspension in whole or in part, of a permit, denial of an application for a permit, and other actions. Disciplinary action may be imposed based on: … a finding by the department that any person holds an ownership interest in a permit or permittee that is nominal or without the benefits and risks of genuine ownership.” 7.35.2.7 (G)(1):  “‘Genuine ownership’ means an ownership interest in an applicant or a permittee that is evidenced by record ownership in which the owner, regardless of the amount of capital or assets that the owner contributes to the applicant or permittee, enjoys the customary incidents of ownership and shares in the profits and losses of the permittee proportionate to the percentage of the owner's interest in the permit.” Proposed solution:  clarify that passive investments are allowed within the program. Particularly where there are no prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine, requiring all investors to have decision making authority can result in “mission drift” and undermine the medical goals of the program. Ideally, business decisions will be made by people who are actively involved with provision of care, lest the medical aims of the program be overridden by financial motives.  5.  Restrictors for Property-Renting Applicants  We support the comment submitted by Healing Advocacy Fund and Rudick Law Group regarding the requirements for property renter cultivators at 7.35.2.8(A)(9). The prior comment proposes a two-part amendment: first, adding a lease agreement 
===== PAGE 65 =====
  
   Page 8 of 8   
(with an anti-liability waiver) pathway as a new alternative to the existing proof-of-ownership and written approval options; and second, revising the scope of the written approval option to require only attestation of permission to participate in a licensed Department of Health program, rather than permission to cultivate psilocybin on the premises. We write to emphasize that both components of that amendment are necessary, and to caution the Department against adopting the revised attestation language without also adopting the lease agreement pathway.  The revised attestation language addresses a legal exposure problem. Requiring a landlord to attest in writing to permitting the cultivation of a Schedule I substance on their premises, even in the context of a state-licensed program, exposes that landlord to potential civil and criminal liability. Narrowing the attestation to program participation rather than cultivation directly reduces that exposure and makes the written approval pathway viable for landlords who are willing to support their tenants but cannot sign a document that could be characterized as approving federally illegal activity. The lease agreement pathway is also a necessary addition. The Department can provide a lease agreement option that still requires the lease to adequately protect the cultivators right to participate in the program by requiring an anti-illegality waiver in the lease. Both are necessary. A revised attestation still requires a landlord to execute a standalone written document outside of the lease relationship. Some landlords will not be willing to provide any freestanding written approval for activities involving a controlled substance, however carefully worded. Many will prefer to incorporate terms directly into the lease, and regulations should allow that option.  Respectfully Submitted,   Jonathan M. Dennis On behalf of PBA New Mexico Working Group  

===== PAGE 66 =====
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 1
Public Comment on Proposed Rule 7.35.2 NMAC
Producer and Laboratory Requirements, New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Program
Submitted by: Gregory Evans, Independent Researcher and Contributing Member, MPAB Propagation Committee
Contact: gregory.L.evans@gmail.com
Re: Proposed adoption of 7.35.2 NMAC, published for committee review 3/24/2026
Hearing Scheduled: April 24, 2026, Harold Runnels Building, Santa Fe, NM
Introduction
My name is Gregory Evans. I am an independent researcher and home mycologist based in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and a
contributing member of the Medical Psilocybin Advisory Board's Propagation Committee. I submit these comments on proposed
rule 7.35.2 NMAC in that capacity.
This public comment addresses deficiencies in the proposed rule's definitions, testing framework, potency reporting, and related
provisions. Each section identifies the original rule language, the specific problem, a suggested amendment, and the rationale
supporting the change.
These comments aim to ground the rule in accurate science, operational workability, and alignment with the board's adopted
recommendations.
I. Definitions
A. Definition Amendments
1. §7.I.2 "Inoculate" — Biological Inaccuracy
Original rule language:
"Inoculate" means the process of introducing psilocybin spores of mycelium into growth medium.
Problem: "Psilocybin spores" is biologically inaccurate: spores do not contain psilocybin. The definition restricts inoculation to one
organism type.
Suggested amendment:
"Inoculate" means the process of introducing spores, mycelium, or spawn into growth medium.
Why: Separates the inoculation definition from organism scope. Species limitation remains at §7.P.12 and §7.P.11.
2. §7.P.10 "Psilocybin" — Bundled Compound Creates Regulatory Ambiguity
Original rule language:
"Psilocybin" means the naturally occurring psychedelic compound 4-phosphoryloxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine, also known as
4-PO-DMT, and its pharmacologically active metabolite psilocin, 4-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine, found in certain
mushrooms, but does not include synthetic or synthetic analogs of psilocybin.
Problem: Psilocybin and psilocin are separate molecules with different CAS numbers, molecular weights, and pharmacokinetic
roles. Bundling them into one definition contradicts §7.P.6, Table 2, and §14.A.4.h, all of which treat them as distinct analytes.
Suggested amendment:
"Psilocybin" means the naturally occurring psychedelic prodrug 4-phosphoryloxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (CAS 520-52-5), also
known as 4-PO-DMT, found in certain mushrooms, but does not include synthetic psilocybin or synthetic analogs of psilocybin.
"Psilocin" means the pharmacologically active metabolite 4-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (CAS 520-53-6), produced by
dephosphorylation of psilocybin.
Why: Separating the definitions resolves internal contradictions between §7.P.6, Table 2, and §14.A.4.h. Labs report each
compound on its own line. CAS numbers anchor each term to its molecule.

===== PAGE 67 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 2
3. §7.C.7 / §7.M.1 "Cultivation" and "Manufacture" — Overlapping Scope
Original rule language (§7.C.7):
"Cultivation" means the growing, harvesting, drying, and handling of psilocybin-producing mushrooms.
Original rule language (§7.M.1):
"Manufacture" or "process" means to harvest, dry, compound, convert, or package into pills, capsules, or sachets of
homogenized powder, and label mushrooms and products containing psilocybin.
Problem: Harvesting and drying appear in both definitions. A producer performing either act is simultaneously "cultivating" and
"manufacturing," triggering conflicting obligations. The rule never identifies when a cultivation batch becomes manufacturing input,
breaking the traceability chain §15 requires.
Suggested amendment:
"Cultivation" means the inoculation, growing, and maintenance of psilocybin-producing mushrooms through harvest.
"Process" means to perform one or more of the following post-harvest operations on psilocybin mushrooms or psilocybin
material: drying, homogenizing, or preparing processed material for storage. Processing concludes when the material is in a
stable, storage-ready state. For tailored dosage preparation, see "compound" (§7.C.5).
"Manufacture" means to prepare a finished psilocybin product from processed psilocybin material by enclosing, forming, or
assembling it into a dosage form authorized by the department. Manufacturing operations under this rule are limited to
encapsulation, sachet packaging, or other packaging of homogenized powder (see §11).
This amendment omits §7.C.6 ("convert"). The current rule defines it as "converting psilocybin mushrooms into a homogenized lot,"
which is redundant with homogenization. Its common meaning implies extraction, which §11 does not authorize.
Why: Draws a clean boundary at harvest: cultivation stops, processing begins. Process fills the post-harvest gap. Manufacture is
scoped to §11's authorized forms.
4. §7.P.6 "Potency" — Required Analytes Unspecified
Original rule language:
"Potency" means the level of psilocybin and analytes in a sample of a batch, lot, or product which is measured and expressed
in metric units.
Problem: "Analytes" is unspecified. Two labs testing the same sample could report different analyte panels. Table 2 already lists
the intended analytes with CAS numbers; the definition fails to reference it.
Suggested amendment:
"Potency" means the concentration of the analytes specified in Table 2 of §19.G in a sample of a homogenized lot, measured
and expressed in milligrams per gram (mg/g).
Why: Anchors "analytes" to Table 2 so every lab reports the same panel. mg/g replaces the vague "metric units." If the department
updates Table 2, the potency definition tracks automatically.

===== PAGE 68 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 3
5. §7.M.3 "Mycelium" — Unnecessary Species Qualifier
Original rule language:
"Mycelium" means the fungal threads or hyphae of psilocybin containing mushrooms.
Problem: Mycelium is a universal fungal structure. Restricting the term excludes contaminating organisms (Trichoderma,
Aspergillus, Penicillium) whose mycelium the rule may need to reference.
Suggested amendment:
"Mycelium" means the vegetative body of a fungus, composed of a network of filamentous structures called hyphae.
Why: Removes the species constraint so the rule can reference mycelium accurately in any context. Program scope is already
established by §7.P.12 and §7.P.11.
6. §7.F.3 "Fruiting Bodies" — Reduced to Single Function
Original rule language:
"Fruiting bodies" means the spore producing organs of the fungi.
Problem: Scientifically inaccurate. A fruiting body is the reproductive structure of a fungus, not a "spore producing organ." Spores
are produced by specialized cells borne on tissues within the fruiting body. The definition also reduces the fruiting body to a single
function, rather than the material harvested, dried, tested, and administered under this rule.
Suggested amendment:
"Fruiting body" means the spore-bearing reproductive structure of a fungus, including associated tissues.
Why: More biologically accurate, better aligns with §7.M.4, and more clearly describes the material regulated under this rule.
7. §7.C.8 / §7.H.2 / §7.H.5 / §7.P.8 Lot Hierarchy — Definitions Do Not Enforce the Intended Chain
Original rule language (§7.C.8):
"Cultivation batch" or "Batch" means a quantity of unharvested spores, fruiting body, or mycelium that is grown together under
the same conditions, that may contain fungi that originates from diverse spores or mycelial tissue.
Original rule language (§7.H.2):
"Harvest lot" means the fruiting bodies of mushrooms cultivated and harvested at the permitted location.
Original rule language (§7.H.5):
"Homogenized lot" means a quantity of psilocybin mushrooms identified by a producer that is cultivated and dried under the
same conditions, and harvested within a specified time period at the same location within permitted premises.
Original rule language (§7.P.8):
"Product lot" means the same type of product that has been created from a homogenized lot.

===== PAGE 69 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 4
Item 7 (continued): Lot Hierarchy
Problem statement:
§15.A requires producers to track cultivation batches, harvest lots, homogenized lots, product lots, and psilocybin product
inventory. §15.A.1 assigns UIDs to cultivation batches, homogenized lots, and product lots. The definitions do not connect the
stages to one another. Six gaps:
1. Chain broken. §7.H.2, §7.H.5, and §7.P.8 do not name their parent stages.
2. Mixed genetic origin permitted. §7.C.8 allows "fungi that originates from diverse spores or mycelial tissue."
3. Homogenization not required. §7.H.5 does not reference §7.H.4.
4. Product lot underspecified. "Same type of product" is undefined.
5. UID lists inconsistent. §10.A.6 lists harvest/homogenized/product. §15.A.1 lists cultivation/homogenized/product.
6. Dead clause. "Harvested within a specified time period" in §7.H.5 has no value assigned.
Suggested amendment:
"Cultivation batch" or "batch" means the fruiting bodies produced from a single inoculation event in which spawn derived from a
single genetic source is introduced to bulk growth medium, under the same environmental conditions, at the permitted location.
Each cultivation batch shall be assigned a unique identification number.
"Harvest lot" means the dried fruiting bodies harvested from a specific cultivation batch at the permitted location. A harvest lot
may include material from one or more flushes, provided all material originates from the same cultivation batch. Fruiting bodies
shall be dehydrated prior to storage. Each harvest lot shall be assigned a unique identification number.
"Homogenized lot" means a quantity of dried psilocybin fruiting bodies from one or more harvest lots originating from the same
cultivation batch that have been homogenized in accordance with Paragraph (4) of this subsection. A homogenized lot is the
testable unit for all required testing under Section 19. Each homogenized lot shall be assigned a unique identification number
and a homogenization date under Paragraph (3) of this subsection.
"Product lot" means a quantity of a single product form (capsules, sachets, or packaged homogenized powder) produced from
a specific homogenized lot. If multiple product forms are created from the same homogenized lot, each form constitutes a
separate product lot. Each product lot shall be assigned a unique identification number and shall inherit the test results and
identification lineage of its parent homogenized lot.
Why: The amended definitions chain each stage to its parent, constrain genetic origin, require homogenization per §7.H.4, specify
product form per §11, and resolve the §10.A.6/§15.A.1 UID inconsistency at the definitional level.

===== PAGE 70 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 5
8. §7.U "Unique Identification Number" — Permissive Scope
Original rule language:
"Unique identification number" means the most recent unique number assigned by traceability for a psilocybin product that may
include cultivation batches, harvest lots, homogenized lots, product lots, and testing samples.
Problem: "May include" makes UID coverage permissive. A producer cannot tell whether UID assignment at any given stage is
required or optional.
Suggested amendment:
"Unique identification number" means a unique number assigned within the traceability system to a cultivation batch, harvest
lot, homogenized lot, or product lot. Each production stage shall retain its assigned unique identification number; subsequent
stages receive new unique identification numbers while preserving the identification lineage of their parent stage. The
department may, by guidance or order, designate additional lot or sample categories for which unique identification numbers
shall be assigned.
Why: Makes assignment mandatory and aligns §7.U with the four production stages. Follows the §19.E.1 pattern: enumerated
baseline plus department authority to expand.
B. Definition Gaps
Terms not currently defined in §7 that are needed for operational clarity.
9. §7.S "Spawn" — Recommended Addition
Gap: The amended "inoculate" definition (Item 1) references spawn. Spawn is mycelium-colonized substrate used to inoculate bulk
growth medium, the standard inoculation method and the first link in the §15 traceability chain.
Recommended definition:
"Spawn" means a substrate material colonized by mycelium that is used as an inoculant to initiate mushroom cultivation in bulk
growth medium.
Why: Anchors the inoculate definition (Item 1), supports §12.C and §15 traceability, and aligns with the batch definition's origin
constraint (Item 7).
10. §7.C "Certificate of Analysis" — Recommended Addition
Gap: §19 requires testing with pass/fail criteria. §19.K.2 references "a certificate of analysis" but the term is never defined in §7.
Without a definition, the COA has no required content, format, or minimum information standard.
Recommended definition:
"Certificate of analysis" or "COA" means a document issued by a permitted psilocybin testing laboratory that reports the results
of all analyses performed on a batch sample pursuant to this rule. A certificate of analysis shall include, at minimum: the batch
unique identification number; the name and permit number of the testing laboratory; the name and permit number of the
producer; the date of sample collection; the date of analysis; the results of each required test expressed in the units specified
by this rule; a pass or fail determination for each test with an established action level; and the signature or electronic
certification of the laboratory director or authorized representative.
Why: §19.K.2 assumes a COA exists but §7 never defines it. Minimum contents consolidate information already required by §19,
§14.A.4, and §15.

===== PAGE 71 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 6
11. §7.S "Shelf Life" — Recommended Addition
Gap: §14.A.4.j requires an expiration date on every label. §7.E defines "expiration date" but the rule never defines how a producer
determines that date. No shelf life definition, no stability testing requirement, no methodology.
Recommended definition:
"Shelf life" means the period of time, not to exceed twelve months from the date of batch homogenization, during which a
psilocybin product is expected to maintain its labeled potency, purity, and safety when stored under the conditions specified by
the producer on the product information document.
Why: Anchors shelf life to homogenization date (§7.H.3), labeled potency (§14.A.4.h), and producer-specified storage conditions.
The twelve-month ceiling reflects the board's adopted framework (§VI.B, February 27, 2026).
12. §7.S "Stability" — Recommended Addition
Gap: Stability is the empirical basis for shelf life. The rule requires retesting (§19.L.2) but does not frame this as stability testing and
does not require the data to inform shelf life or expiration date determination.
Recommended definition:
"Stability" means the demonstrated capacity of a psilocybin product to maintain its labeled potency, purity, and microbial safety
within the limits established by this rule over the course of its shelf life when stored under the conditions specified on the
product information document.
Why: §19.L.2 already generates stability-relevant data. Defining stability connects retest data to shelf life determination (Item 11)
and closes the retest-to-expiration gap.
C. Definitions to Defer
Terms defined in §7 whose operative scope falls outside producer/lab regulation. These should be finalized in the appropriate
committee's rulemaking process, not in 7.35.2 NMAC. No amended language is proposed.
Item
Section
Term
Defer to
13
§7.A.2
Administration Session
DACP / clinical practice
14
§7.A.6
Approved Location
DACP / facility licensing
15
§7.C.2
Certification
DACP / Training & Education
16
§7.C.3 / §7.P.7
Clinician / Practitioner
DACP / clinical practice
17
§7.G.3
Guide
Training & Education
18
§7.M.2
Medical Services
DACP / clinical practice
19
§7.Q.1 / §7.Q.2
Qualified Patient / Qualifying
Condition
Patient Qualification & Safety
20
§7 (undefined)
Dose / Dosage
DACP / clinical practice
 (End of Section I. Definitions)

===== PAGE 72 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 7
II. Testing
A. Moisture Control
21. §19.F Water Content Testing — No Action Level Defined
Problem: Water content testing lacks a fail condition. Potency reporting and shelf life depend on water content. Without a
threshold, every downstream calculation starts from an unvalidated number.
Suggested amendment (add to §19.F):
Water content shall be determined by loss on drying (LOD) and shall not exceed 10% by weight. The water content result,
expressed as a percentage, shall be reported on the certificate of analysis. A homogenized lot that exceeds 10% water content
shall not be released for sale or distribution for consumption. Water content retesting shall be conducted in accordance with the
retesting provisions of §19.L.2.
Why: 10% is the potency and shelf stability ceiling: below it, alkaloid degradation is reduced. LOD validates the 12-month shelf life
claim (Item 11). Water activity (Item 22) handles microbial safety separately.
Refer to Addendum A.
22. §19 New Subsection — Water Activity (New Provision)
Problem: §19.E tests organisms on finished product but does not regulate the moisture condition enabling growth. Below aw 0.60,
no pathogen, yeast, or mold relevant to this matrix can grow. §19.F measures total moisture; water activity measures the fraction
available to biology. Both are needed.
Suggested amendment (add following §19.F):
Water activity testing. A producer shall arrange for a sample of each homogenized lot to be collected and tested by an
approved psilocybin testing laboratory for the purpose of water activity testing, prior to the lot being released for sale or
distribution for consumption. A sample shall pass if the measured water activity does not exceed 0.60 aw. Water activity shall
be measured using a method validated to ±0.02 aw precision. The water activity result shall be reported on the certificate of
analysis.
Why: 0.60 aw is below the growth floor of every panel organism. ~$15-25 per sample. With §19.F and §7.S shelf life, water activity
completes the moisture control framework.

===== PAGE 73 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 8
B. Microbiological Panel
Organism-by-organism risk analysis, regulatory precedent review, water activity growth thresholds, and per-sample cost
assessment are documented in Addendum B. Per-organism analysis in Addendum C.
23. §19.E Microbiological Panel — Scope, TYM, and Aspergillus Reporting
Problem:
1. Panel scope. Four organisms (STEC, C. botulinum, P. aeruginosa, Trichoderma) lack evidence basis for dried psilocybin
mushroom biomass; three more (Listeria, A. niger, A. terreus) fall outside USP <2023> for this product category.
2. Total Yeast and Molds. The product is a dried fungus. A TYM test on fungal biomass measures the target organism itself; no
threshold distinguishes contaminated from normal.
3. Aspergillus reporting. The four species carry different risk profiles. §19.E.2 permits collective reporting, so an A. flavus
detection is indistinguishable from A. niger on the COA.
Suggested amendment:
1. Replace Table 1:
Target Microbe
Action Level
E. coli (generic)
100 CFU/g
Aspergillus flavus
Present
Aspergillus fumigatus
Present
Salmonella spp.
Present
2. Amend §19.E.1 (Evidence-triggered authority): The department may require testing for STEC, C. botulinum, P. aeruginosa, L.
monocytogenes, Trichoderma, A. niger, A. terreus, TAMC, and TYM if quality control testing, facility inspection, or epidemiological
evidence identifies a specific contamination concern. Written notice to affected producer required.
3. Replace §19.E.2: Aspergillus species listed in Table 1 shall be reported on a separate line.
Why: Reduces routine panel to four organisms supported by USP <2023>. Remaining organisms route to §19.E.1. Individual
Aspergillus reporting distinguishes aflatoxin risk from invasive risk. TYM is uninterpretable on fungal biomass.
A Common Confusion: Aspergillus is not black mold. The organism colloquially called black mold is Stachybotrys chartarum, a
separate genus that colonizes water-damaged building materials, not a food contaminant.

===== PAGE 74 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 9
C. Retest Cadence
24. §§19.E / 19.G Retest Cadence — Duplicative Language
Problem: The retest cadence appears in four provisions (§19.E, §19.F, §19.G, §19.L.2), each restating the same interval
independently. A single policy change requires four amendments.
Suggested amendment: Strike the retest sentence from §19.E and §19.G. Replace each with:
Re-testing shall be conducted in accordance with §19.L.2.
Why: Consolidates in §19.L.2. A future amendment modifies one provision, not four. Takes no position on the interval itself.
Rule ref: §19.E, §19.G, §19.L.2
D. Sampling and Scope
25. §19.B.1 Sample Size — Fixed Range Conflicts with Laboratory Requirements
Original rule language:
Samples shall be between 1-5 grams for every 1 kilogram of product in each homogenized lot and in accordance with the
psilocybin testing laboratories sampling protocols.
Problem: §19.B.1 caps samples at 1-5 grams and defers to lab SOPs in the same sentence. A validated method requiring more
than 5 grams has nowhere to land. No USP, ISO/IEC 17025, or cannabis program fixes a gram range across tests.
Suggested amendment:
The producer shall provide a sample of sufficient quantity, as determined by the testing laboratory's validated standard
operating procedures, to complete all analyses required by this rule. The testing laboratory shall document its minimum sample
size requirements for each required test and shall communicate the total sample size needed to the producer prior to collection.
The testing laboratory shall collect only the minimum quantity necessary to perform all required analyses, including any
retention sample the laboratory's protocols require.
Why: SOP deference removes the fixed ceiling and lets sample size track what §19 requires.
26. §§10.A.2, 13, 20.B, 21.A Residual Solvents — References Not Applicable to Authorized Product Forms
Problem: §11 authorizes capsules, sachets, and homogenized dried powder. No provision authorizes solvent-based extraction or
concentration. The four solvent references carry over from cannabis rulemaking.
Suggested amendment: Strike solvent references from §10.A.2, §13, §20.B, and §21.A. Replace with cleaning-agent language
where applicable. If the department later authorizes extracted product forms, solvent controls attach to that authorization.
Rule ref: §10.A.2, §11, §13, §20.B, §21.A

===== PAGE 75 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 10
III. Batch and Production
27. §10.A.6 UID Assignment — Omits Cultivation Batch
Original rule language:
Associate every harvest lot, homogenized lot, and product lot with a unique identification number and enter this information into
the traceability system.
Problem: Omits cultivation batches. A producer reading §10 alone skips UID assignment at the first production stage.
Suggested amendment:
Associate every cultivation batch, harvest lot, homogenized lot, and product lot with a unique identification number and enter
this information into the traceability system.
Why: Aligns §10.A.6 with §7.U (Item 8) and §15.A.1 (Item 28). All four stages: cultivation batch, harvest lot, homogenized lot,
product lot.
28. §15.A.1 UID Assignment — Omits Harvest Lot
Original rule language:
each cultivation batch, homogenized lot, and product lot shall be assigned a unique identification number in the traceability
system
Problem: Omits harvest lots. A producer reading §15 alone skips UID assignment at the stage between cultivation and
homogenization.
Suggested amendment:
each cultivation batch, harvest lot, homogenized lot, and product lot shall be assigned a unique identification number in the
traceability system
Why: Aligns §15.A.1 with §7.U (Item 8) and §10.A.6 (Item 27). Consistent four-stage UID assignment across §§7, 10, and 15.
IV. Labeling and Potency
29. §14.A.4.h / §19.G Potency Calculation — "Total Psilocybin Equivalent" and "Total Potential Psilocin"
Undefined
Problem: §14.A.4.h requires two calculated values but the rule omits conversion factors, analyte inputs, and calculation formula.
Two laboratories testing identical samples report different label values.
Suggested amendment (add to §19.G):
The department shall require, as a condition of laboratory permit approval or renewal under §8.C, that each psilocybin testing
laboratory's standard operating procedures include a validated methodology for calculating "total psilocybin equivalent" and
"total potential psilocin" as referenced in §14.A.4.h. The department shall specify, by guidance or order, the conversion factors,
analyte inputs, and calculation formula to be used by all permitted laboratories. No laboratory shall report "total psilocybin
equivalent" or "total potential psilocin" values using a methodology that has not been reviewed and approved by the
department.
Why: Potency calculation is a technical standard that belongs in the SOP approval process (§8.C), where it can be validated,
standardized, and updated without a rule amendment. Every permitted lab uses the same formula.
Rule ref: §14.A.4.h, §19.G, §8.C

===== PAGE 76 =====
7.35.2 NMAC Public Comment
Gregory Evans  |  April 24, 2026
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 11
Closing
These comments are submitted in good faith, grounded in the Propagation Committee's adopted framework, the Advisory
Board's unanimous vote of February 27, 2026, and the best available science on psilocybin mushroom cultivation, testing,
and product safety. The goal throughout is a rule that protects patients, supports producers and laboratories, and reflects
what the board actually recommended.
Where specific amendments are proposed, they are offered as starting points for discussion, not final positions. Where
definitions are flagged for deferral, the intent is to preserve the work of the committees responsible for those domains.
Where costs are cited, they are estimates intended to ground the conversation in operational reality.
New Mexico has an opportunity to build a psilocybin regulatory framework that is scientifically rigorous, operationally
practical, and worthy of the public trust placed in this program. I respectfully urge the Department to consider these
comments in that spirit.
Respectfully submitted,
Gregory Evans
Independent Researcher and Home Mycologist
Contributing Member, MPAB Propagation Committee
Santa Fe, New Mexico

===== PAGE 77 =====
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 1
Public Comment on Proposed Rule 7.35.2 NMAC
Document Package Summary
Submitted by: Gregory Evans, Independent Researcher and Contributing Member, MPAB Propagation Committee
Hearing: April 24, 2026, Harold Runnels Building, Santa Fe, NM
Contact: gregory.L.evans@gmail.com
Document Package
Document
Pages
Scope
Public Comment
11
29 items across definitions, testing, batch/production, and labeling. Original rule language,
problem, amendment, and rationale for each.
Addendum A
Moisture & Water Activity
5
Working analysis on moisture content standards, LOD vs. water activity, dosage deviation,
USP <731>, lab workflow, and microbial panel linkage.
Addendum B
Microbiological Panel
8
Risk analysis and cost assessment for §19.E Table 1. Panel routing, pharmacopeial
anchors, structural authorities, cost comparison, compliance-triggered framework.
Addendum C
Per-Organism Analysis
3
Target-by-target analysis for all nine organism categories. Biology, exposure-route
reasoning, USP alignment, and routing recommendation for each.
Summary of Amendments by Category
I. Definitions (Items 1-20)
Eight amendments correct biological inaccuracies, separate bundled compounds, resolve overlapping definitions, enforce the lot
hierarchy chain of custody, and make UID assignment mandatory. Four new definitions fill operational gaps: spawn, certificate of
analysis, shelf life, and stability. Eight definitions deferred to the committees responsible for clinical practice, patient qualification,
and dosage.
II. Testing (Items 21-26)
Water content: Add 10% LOD ceiling and pass/fail reporting on the COA (Item 21).
Water activity: New §19 provision requiring aw ≤ 0.60, the upstream preventative control that validates every downstream
microbial safety claim. ~$15-25/sample (Item 22).
Microbiological panel: Reduce routine Table 1 from nine organism categories to four (E. coli, A. flavus, A. fumigatus, Salmonella),
anchored to USP <2023>. Route remaining organisms to §19.E.1 triggered testing. Require individual Aspergillus reporting.
Remove TYM (category-incompatible with fungal biomass). Estimated cost reduction: ~$420-800+ to ~$120-210 per release event
(Item 23).
Retest cadence: Consolidate duplicative interval language into §19.L.2 (Item 24). Sample size: Defer to lab SOPs, remove fixed
1-5g ceiling (Item 25). Residual solvents: Remove four inapplicable solvent references; §11 does not authorize extraction (Item
26).
III. Batch and Production (Items 27-28)
Align §10.A.6 and §15.A.1 UID assignment lists with the four-stage production chain defined in Item 7. Add cultivation batch to
§10.A.6; add harvest lot to §15.A.1.
IV. Labeling and Potency (Item 29)
"Total psilocybin equivalent" and "total potential psilocin" are required on every label (§14.A.4.h) but have no defined formula,
conversion factors, or analyte inputs. Route calculation methodology to the SOP approval process at §8.C so every permitted lab
uses the same formula.
Core position: The proposed rule should reflect the board's adopted framework, anchor testing to USP <2023> pharmacopeial
standards, enforce moisture and water activity controls that make the microbial framework work, and give the Department clear
triggered-testing authority for organisms removed from routine. These amendments reduce cost, improve clarity, and do not
reduce patient safety.

===== PAGE 78 =====
Gregory Evans - Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2 Hearing - Presented 4/24/2026
Page 1
Moisture Content & Water Activity
Working Analysis
Addendum to Public Comment | New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Program
NMDOH Advisory Board, Propagation Committee
Prepared by Gregory Evans | April 23, 2026
Summary of Positions
Working analysis and positions reached through extended discussion on moisture content standards, water activity
thresholds, testing methodology, and their downstream effects on dosage accuracy and microbial risk for the NM
Medical Psilocybin Program.
 Moisture ceiling: <=10% w/w
 Practical target: 5-8% w/w
 Water activity: aw <= 0.60
 LOD testing (USP <731>) required at lab intake
 Sample size defined by lab SOPs, not rule language
 Residual solvents panel: remove (not applicable to unextracted biomass)
 Production/drying methods: not regulated
1. Moisture Content Standards
Why It Matters
Dried psilocybin mushroom biomass is dosed gravimetrically. The patient receives a weighed amount of powder. Water
mass displaces active compound mass per unit weight. Uncontrolled moisture variability directly introduces dosing error.
Fresh mushrooms contain 85-95% water. Proper dehydration reduces this to single digits. The regulatory question is where
to draw the line.
Established Thresholds
<=10% w/w moisture -- Maximum acceptable for storage stability. Above this, degradation accelerates and microbial risk
increases. Consistent with food-grade dried mushroom standards (Codex Alimentarius) and stability data showing minimal
alkaloid loss over 15 months at <10% moisture in dark, room-temperature storage (Gotvaldova et al. 2021).
5-8% w/w -- Practical operating target for well-dried biomass. Achievable with standard food dehydration equipment.
Diminishing returns below 5%.
aw <= 0.60 -- Water activity threshold below which microbial growth ceases. More functionally meaningful than moisture
percentage alone because it accounts for how tightly water is bound in the matrix, not just how much is present.
Production Methods Are Not Regulated
How a producer achieves the moisture target is their decision. Drying technique, temperature, equipment, and duration are
at the producer's discretion. A producer who uses aggressive high-heat methods and gets lower potency results has made a
production decision, not a compliance failure. The regulation defines the outcome standard, not the process.

===== PAGE 79 =====
Moisture Content & Water Activity -- Working Analysis
Public Comment Addendum
Gregory Evans - Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2 Hearing - Presented 4/24/2026
Page 2
2. LOD vs. Water Activity: Two Measures, Two Jobs
What Each Number Measures
Water content (% LOD) measures total water mass as a percentage of sample mass. Method: USP <731> Loss on Drying
(weigh, oven at 105 C, re-weigh). It answers: how much of this powder is water instead of active compound?
Water activity (aw) measures the fraction of water thermodynamically available to participate in biological and chemical
reactions. Scale: 0 (bone dry) to 1.0 (pure water). Method: chilled-mirror dewpoint or capacitance sensor, ~$15-25/sample.
It answers: can anything grow in this?
The Relationship Is Nonlinear
A sample's water content and water activity are related but not proportional. The relationship is called a moisture sorption
isotherm and depends on the matrix. In dried Psilocybe cubensis powder:
Moisture
(% LOD)
Approx.
aw
What It Means
3-5%
0.15-0.25
Over-dried. Brittle, dusty. Functional but unnecessary.
5-8%
0.30-0.45
Cracker dry. Target range. Snap-clean breaks, no flex. Food dehydrator at 130-160 F to weight
stability.
10%
~0.40-0.50
LOD ceiling. Well below aw 0.60. Passes both thresholds.
12-14%
~0.50-0.58
Getting soft. Stems may bend. Approaching aw threshold.
14-18%
0.58-0.65
Fails aw. Microbial growth possible. Material pliable.
>18%
>0.65
Underdried. Storage risk. Would not pass any reasonable standard.
Figure 1. Approximate moisture sorption isotherm for dried Psilocybe cubensis powder. Actual values vary with particle size, composition, and temperature. Not
 derived from experimental sorption data for this specific matrix.
Key insight: At 10% LOD, water activity is approximately 0.40-0.50, well below the 0.60 aw safety threshold. The LOD
ceiling is the tighter constraint for this matrix. If a sample passes 10% LOD, it will almost certainly pass 0.60 aw. The aw
test catches the edge case: bad storage, incomplete homogenization, localized rehydration.

===== PAGE 80 =====
Moisture Content & Water Activity -- Working Analysis
Public Comment Addendum
Gregory Evans - Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2 Hearing - Presented 4/24/2026
Page 3
2. LOD vs. Water Activity (continued)
Why Both Tests Exist
LOD <= 10% is the potency and stability gate.
 Water mass dilutes the mg/g potency reading on HPLC
 LOD value is used to calculate dry-weight correction on the COA
 Below 10%, alkaloid degradation stays under 5% over 15 months in dark, room-temperature storage (Gotvaldova 2021)
 Dosing is gravimetric: water displaces active compound per unit weight
aw <= 0.60 is the microbial safety gate.
 Below 0.60, no pathogen, yeast, or mold relevant to this matrix can grow
 Scientific basis for reducing the micro panel
 $15-25 per sample, cheapest test on the full panel
 Without aw on every COA, the reduced-panel argument loses its foundation
Together: LOD controls potency accuracy and shelf stability. Water activity controls microbial safety. Both appear on the
COA. Both have pass/fail thresholds. Different numbers, different scales, different jobs.
What 'Cracker Dry' Means in These Terms
A producer drying mushrooms to weight stability in a food dehydrator at 130-160 F will land at 5-8% LOD and approximately
0.30-0.45 aw. The physical test: fruiting bodies snap cleanly, stipes break like dry twigs, no flex or bend. Standard practice
requiring no specialized equipment beyond a food dehydrator ($50-200) and a kitchen scale.
The LOD test at the lab confirms what the producer already achieved through standard drying practice. Verification, not
discovery. The aw test adds microbial safety confirmation that LOD alone cannot provide.
Plain-language summary for non-scientists: Think of water content as 'how wet is this powder' and water activity as
'can anything grow in it.' A sample can have some water in it (10% by weight) but have that water locked up so tightly
that nothing biological can use it (aw 0.40). The 10% LOD rule protects potency accuracy. The 0.60 aw rule protects
against microbial contamination. Both are cheap, standard lab tests. Both go on the certificate of analysis.

===== PAGE 81 =====
Moisture Content & Water Activity -- Working Analysis
Public Comment Addendum
Gregory Evans - Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2 Hearing - Presented 4/24/2026
Page 4
3. Dosage Deviation from Moisture Variability
Core Relationship
If a product is tested at moisture content M0 and later dosed at moisture content M1, the dosing error is:
 Error = (1 - M1) / (1 - M0) - 1
The relative standard deviation (RSD) of dose attributable to moisture variability alone:
 RSD_dose ~ sigma_M / (1 - M0)
Where sigma_M is the standard deviation of moisture content across the product's lifecycle.
Practical Examples
Target Moisture (M0)
Moisture SD
Dose RSD
6%
2%
~2.13%
8%
3%
~3.26%
10%
4%
~4.44%
Compounding Error
Moisture is one of several error sources in gravimetric dosing. Total uncertainty combines via root-sum-of-squares:
 RSD_total = sqrt( RSD_moisture^2 + RSD_homogeneity^2 + RSD_weighing^2 )
In a well-homogenized, accurately weighed system, moisture variability becomes the dominant error source if poorly
controlled. Pharmaceutical content uniformity standard (USP <905>) allows +/-10%. The moisture contribution alone stays
well within this at reasonable targets.
Implication
At a 6% target with 2% SD, moisture contributes ~2% dose RSD. Manageable. At 10% target with poor storage controls (4%
SD), it approaches 4.5%. Still within pharmaceutical limits but consuming a large share of the error budget and leaving less
room for other variability sources.
4. USP <731> Loss on Drying
The pharmacopeial standard method for measuring moisture content in solid biological materials. Simple, cheap, and
universally understood by accredited labs.
Procedure
1. Weigh a known mass of sample in a tared glass weighing bottle (analytical balance, +/-0.1 mg)
2. Place in drying oven at 105 C for 2-4 hours
3. Transfer to desiccator, cool to room temperature
4. Re-weigh
5. Calculate: % LOD = ((initial mass - final mass) / initial mass) x 100
Equipment and Cost
Analytical balance (+/-0.1 mg), drying oven (105 C +/- 2 C), desiccator with active desiccant, glass weighing bottles. All
standard lab equipment. $20-50 per sample. Any ISO 17025 accredited lab already owns everything needed. Requires only
0.5-1.0 g of flour-grade homogenized powder -- the least material-hungry test in the full panel.

===== PAGE 82 =====
Moisture Content & Water Activity -- Working Analysis
Public Comment Addendum
Gregory Evans - Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2 Hearing - Presented 4/24/2026
Page 5
5. Lab Workflow Integration
Split-Sample Methodology (Example)
When a producer submits a sample, the lab splits it into aliquots:
 Aliquot A -- LOD oven (0.5-1.0 g): Moisture content of as-received material
 Aliquot B -- HPLC (0.5-1.0 g): Potency analysis on as-received material
 Aliquot C -- Microbial panel (1-2 g): The material-hungry test
 Aliquot D -- Heavy metals ICP-MS (0.3-0.5 g): If required
 Reserve -- Remainder held for retest or confirmation
Critical Point
The lab does not further dehydrate the potency sample before HPLC. Aliquot B goes into extraction and analysis
as-received. The LOD result from Aliquot A is used to calculate and report potency on both an as-received basis and a
dry-weight basis.
COA Reporting Structure
A properly structured COA reports:
 Moisture content (% LOD)
 Potency as-received (mg/g at measured moisture)
 Potency dry-weight basis (mg/g corrected to 0% moisture)
 Water activity (aw) if measured
The dry-weight basis number allows comparison across batches regardless of moisture differences. The as-received
number reflects what the patient actually gets.
6. Microbial Panel Linkage
Tighter moisture and storage controls reduce the microbial risk profile. Below aw 0.60, microbial growth stops.
Organisms are not killed. Dormant spores survive and mycotoxins are irreversible if present pre-drying. But post-production
contamination risk drops to near zero in properly dried and stored material.
If moisture standards are enforced with LOD testing at intake, much of the justification for an extensive microbial panel
weakens. The risk analysis shifts from 'what could grow' to 'what was present before drying' -- a pre-harvest/cultivation
concern, not a post-production testing concern.
Full microbial panel analysis covered in separate working thread.
References
1. Gotvaldova, K.; Hajkova, K.; Borovicka, J.; Jurok, R.; Cihlarova, P.; Kuchar, M. "Stability of psilocybin and its four analogs in the biomass of the
 psychotropic mushroom Psilocybe cubensis." Drug Testing and Analysis 2021, 13(2), 439-446. DOI: 10.1002/dta.2950
2. Gotvaldova, K.; et al. "Extensive Collection of Psychotropic Mushrooms with Determination of Their Tryptamine Alkaloids." Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022,
 23(22), 14068.
3. United States Pharmacopeia. USP <731> Loss on Drying. USP-NF.
 
4. United States Pharmacopeia. USP <905> Uniformity of Dosage Units. USP-NF.
 
5. Codex Alimentarius Commission. Code of Practice for the Prevention and Reduction of Mycotoxin Contamination in Cereals (CAC/RCP 51-2003).
 
6. FDA. Water Activity (aw) in Foods. 21 CFR Part 117 -- Preventive controls for human food.
 
===== PAGE 83 =====
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 1
Microbiological Panel (Table 1)
Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B to Public Comment | New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Program
NMAC 7.35.2 | Propagation and Testing
Prepared by Gregory Evans | April 23, 2026
Supporting evidence for Items 21, 22, and 23 of the public comment on 7.35.2 NMAC, prepared for the April 24, 2026 hearing.
This addendum presents the biology, pharmacopeial anchoring, regulatory structure, and cost evidence behind those amendments.
Recommendation language is settled in the public comment draft.
What the public comment recommends
§19.E Table 1 (routine batch-release testing):
 E. coli (generic) at 100 CFU/g
 Aspergillus flavus, Present
 Aspergillus fumigatus, Present
 Salmonella spp., Present
§19.E.1 (compliance-triggered authority): STEC, C. botulinum, P. aeruginosa, L. monocytogenes, Trichoderma, A. niger, A.
terreus, TAMC, TYM.
§19.E.2: individual Aspergillus reporting; no collective totals.
New §19 subsection (Item 22): water activity ≤ 0.60.
Pharmacopeial anchors: USP <2023>, <61>, <62>.
Water activity is the preventative control that makes the rest of the framework work.
At aw ≤ 0.60, no foodborne pathogen, yeast, or mold relevant to this matrix can grow. The threshold sits below the minimum
growth floor of every organism on the current or proposed panel:
 Salmonella ≥ 0.94
 Listeria ≥ 0.92
 E. coli ≥ 0.95
 C. botulinum ≥ 0.94
 A. fumigatus ≥ 0.85
 A. flavus ≥ 0.78 (aflatoxin production requires aw > 0.83)
One inexpensive upstream test validates the environmental condition that every downstream safety claim depends on. [1]
Scope and deference
This addendum is analytical framing on risk proportionality, pharmacopeial anchoring, and regulatory structure. Cost figures are
general estimates drawn from published ranges, not quotes. Official pricing, turnaround, method selection, and operational
feasibility sit with New Mexico accredited laboratory operators. Costs here cover the microbiological panel only; potency (§19.G),
moisture (§19.F), heavy metals, and pesticides are separate testing categories.

===== PAGE 84 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 2
Current Table 1 as Proposed by NMDOH
Target Microbe
Action Level
E. coli
100 CFU/gram
A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, or A. terreus
Present
Salmonella spp.
Present
Shiga-toxin producing E. coli
Present
Clostridium botulinum
Present
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Present
Listeria
Present
Trichoderma
Present
Total Yeast and Molds
> 20 CFU
Water Activity, New §19 Subsection
Water activity measures the unbound water available to microbial activity. It is not a measure of total moisture. Two products at the
same moisture content by weight can have very different water activity depending on how water is bound in the matrix.
Minimum growth thresholds for organisms on the current or proposed panels:
 Salmonella ≈ 0.94
 Listeria monocytogenes ≈ 0.92
 E. coli ≈ 0.95
 C. botulinum ≈ 0.94
 Aspergillus fumigatus ≈ 0.85
 Aspergillus flavus ≈ 0.78 (aflatoxin production requires aw > 0.83)
0.60 sits at the food microbiology floor below which no foodborne pathogen is known to grow. [1] Most xerophilic molds are also
inhibited at or below this threshold.
What this provides. Water activity converts the microbiological framework from reactive detection to upstream prevention. A batch
meeting aw ≤ 0.60 cannot develop contamination under its own storage conditions, regardless of downstream handling. Batches
exceeding the threshold flag a moisture-control failure before an organism is ever cultured.
Cost. Roughly $15 to $25 per test at laboratories accredited for dried botanicals. Fast turnaround. Compatible with the 30-day
release window at §19.
Geographic calibration. New Mexico has among the highest vapor pressure deficit values in the country. Ambient air actively
pulls moisture out of hygroscopic material. Dried fungal biomass reaches equilibrium moisture consistent with aw ≤ 0.60 without
extraordinary controls.
Rule refs: new §19 subsection (Item 22); complements §19.F water content at 10% LOD (Item 21).

===== PAGE 85 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 3
Pharmacopeial Anchors
Dried psilocybin mushroom fruiting bodies are a nonsterile, orally ingested, botanical product framed by the Department as
pharmaceutical. Three USP standards govern this category:
Standard
Scope
Relevance
USP <2023>
Microbiological Attributes of Nonsterile Nutritional and
Dietary Supplements
Product-matrix match for dried botanical supplements. Primary
anchor.
USP <61>
Microbial Enumeration Tests for Nonsterile
Pharmaceutical Products
Methodology standard for total aerobic and total yeast/mold
enumeration.
USP <62>
Tests for Specified Microorganisms in Nonsterile
Pharmaceutical Products
Defines route-specific organisms. Scopes P. aeruginosa to
topical, inhaled, mucosal; S. aureus to topical; C. albicans to
oromucosal.
USP <2023> requirements for botanical supplements:
Test
USP Limit
Total Aerobic Microbial Count (TAMC)
≤ 100,000 CFU/g
Total Combined Yeast and Mold (TYM)
≤ 1,000 CFU/g
E. coli
Absent in 10g
Salmonella
Absent (per USP <2022>)
Four tests. No Aspergillus speciation, no STEC, no C. botulinum, no Pseudomonas, no Listeria, no Trichoderma.
How the public comment's Table 1 relates to USP <2023>:
 Covers every USP <2023> organism biologically applicable to this matrix.
 Adds A. flavus and A. fumigatus speciation beyond USP baseline, reflecting the therapeutic patient population.
 Substitutes water activity ≤ 0.60 for USP TYM enumeration, which is category-incompatible with dried fungal biomass.
 Routes TAMC to §19.E.1 and §20.B. At aw ≤ 0.60 bacterial growth cannot occur; the retained pathogen tests cover the bacterial
organisms of concern.

===== PAGE 86 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 4
Structural Anchors Already in the Rule
Four provisions in the proposed rule already support a narrower routine panel. No new regulatory mechanism is required.
Provision
Authority it already provides
§19.E.1
Compliance-triggered authority
Department may require additional microbial testing when quality control, inspection, or laboratory findings
identify a public health concern. Every organism proposed for removal from routine testing remains available
here.
§20.B
Voluntary labeling
Producers may elect additional testing at their own expense, including "additional pesticides, microbial
contaminants, solvents, mycotoxins, and metals." Any producer seeking screened-for status on a removed
organism can obtain it without a rule change.
§23
FDA Food Code incorporation
Facility sanitation addresses personal cleanliness, hygienic practices, equipment, water systems, plumbing,
and construction. Environmental vectors (Listeria, Pseudomonas, Trichoderma) are handled upstream by
facility hygiene, not end-product testing.
§19
30-day release window
All testing must complete within 30 days of homogenization. Tests with turnaround approaching or
exceeding this window (notably anaerobic culture for C. botulinum) impose a release constraint unrelated to
safety.
Aspergillus
Why two species stay routine: Reported individually so the certificate of analysis preserves which species was detected.
A. flavus
 Produces aflatoxins, potent carcinogens and hepatotoxins regulated under WHO and FDA guidance. [2]
A. fumigatus
 Clinically consequential in immunocompromised patients: a population this therapeutic program will include. [3]
 Primary cause of invasive aspergillosis
Triggered testing: A. niger and A. terreus
 Opportunistic agents documented almost exclusively in severely immunosuppressed individuals (dialysis, transplant,
hematologic malignancy)
 Neither is required by USP <2023>
 Collective reporting of all four under §19.E.2 as proposed dilutes the diagnostic signal from the two species that drive patient
risk

===== PAGE 87 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 5
Panel: Routing, Biology, and Cost
Per-organism routing, matrix-specific biology, and cost tier. Full biological reasoning for each line item is presented in Addendum C.
Cost tiers: Low: ~$15-50 | Moderate: ~$50-100 | High: $150+
Actual pricing varies by laboratory, method, and bundling.
Organism / test
Recommendation
Cost
Core rationale
E. coli (generic)
Routine, 100 CFU/g
Low
Fecal hygiene indicator; biological surrogate for STEC. USP <2023>
baseline.
A. flavus
Routine, Present,
individual
Mod.
(bundled)
Aflatoxin producer. The only Aspergillus with documented mycotoxin risk in
stored agricultural products.
A. fumigatus
Routine, Present,
individual
Mod.
(bundled)
Primary cause of invasive aspergillosis. Relevant to immunocompromised
patient population.
Salmonella spp.
Routine, Present
Low
High severity if detected; low per-test cost. USP <2023> baseline.
Water activity
New §19, aw ≤ 0.60
Low
Upstream preventative control below microbiological growth floor.
A. niger / A. terreus
§19.E.1 triggered
Bundled
Opportunistic in severely immunocompromised only. Not required by USP.
STEC
§19.E.1 triggered
Mod.
Pathogenic subset of E. coli, same vector. Not in USP <2023>, <61>, or
<62>. [4]
C. botulinum
§19.E.1 triggered
High
Requires anaerobic conditions and aw > 0.94. Dried product at aw ≤ 0.60
cannot support it. [5]
P. aeruginosa
§19.E.1 triggered
Low-Mod.
USP <62> scope: topical, inhaled, mucosal. Not an oral-route organism.
L. monocytogenes
§19.E.1 triggered
Mod.
Cold-chain RTE organism. Min. growth aw ~ 0.92. Not in USP <2023>.
Trichoderma
§19.E.1 triggered
Low-Mod.
Not listed as human pathogen in any pharmacopeial or food-safety
standard. Cultivation indicator.
TAMC / TYM
§19.E.1 triggered
Low
Category-incompatible with dried fungal biomass. No valid threshold for this
matrix.

===== PAGE 88 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 6
Cost Sanity Check
Specific dollar figures depend on laboratory, method, sample volume, and whether retest requirements consolidate tests. The
framing below is directional.
Proposed routine panel, per release test
 E. coli: Low
 A. flavus and A. fumigatus (bundled speciation): Moderate
 Salmonella: Low
 Water activity: Low
Four Low-tier tests plus one Moderate-tier bundle. Aggregate cost lands in roughly the $120 to $210 range per release event,
depending on lab and bundling.
Current Table 1 as proposed, per release test
Everything above, plus:
 STEC: Moderate
 C. botulinum: High. Anaerobic culture is the single most expensive item on the panel.
 Pseudomonas: Low to Moderate
 Listeria: Moderate
 Trichoderma: Low to Moderate
 TYM: Low
Aggregate cost lands in roughly the $420 to $800+ range. C. botulinum alone can add $150 or more and is the primary driver of
the high end.
Order-of-magnitude delta
The proposed narrower panel runs roughly a third to half the cost of the current panel per release test. The largest single saving
comes from routing C. botulinum to triggered testing where it belongs.
Annualized
Retest cadence is a matter for Department judgment and is not addressed in this addendum. Whatever cadence the Department
adopts, the per-event delta between the proposed and current panels compounds across every release and retest without any
reduction in patient safety.
These estimates come from published laboratory pricing ranges for comparable tests in cannabis, dietary supplement, and
pharmaceutical QC markets. The Department should validate final pricing with New Mexico accredited laboratory operators before
setting policy.

===== PAGE 89 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 7
Compliance-Triggered Testing Framework
Trigger conditions connecting each organism routed out of the routine panel to a specific risk scenario, so the Department's existing
authority at §19.E.1 can be exercised with clear cause.
Organism
Trigger condition
Rationale
STEC
Substrate pasteurization failure; water system
contamination event; positive E. coli result at routine
testing.
Pathogenic subset of E. coli sharing the same transmission
vector. Triggered when surrogate indicator flags the
contamination class or upstream controls fail.
C. botulinum
Authorization of non-dried product form (oil infusion,
vacuum-sealed moist product, fermented preparation);
aw exceedance above 0.94 at inspection.
Anaerobic germination conditions cannot exist in dried
product at aw ≤ 0.60. Triggered only when conditions that
enable the organism become possible.
P. aeruginosa
Water system failure; storage non-compliance; elevated
moisture at inspection; authorization of topical, inhaled,
or mucosal product form.
Water-associated organism relevant when moisture controls
break down or route of exposure shifts to topical, mucosal,
or inhaled (USP <62> scope).
Trichoderma
Facility process audit identifies recurring Trichoderma
presence in cultivation environment; substrate quality
concerns.
Cultivation process indicator, not product safety indicator.
Belongs in facility inspection, not batch-release testing.
L. monocytogenes
Post-harvest handling contamination event;
patient-population epidemiological concern; facility
inspection findings.
Minimum growth aw ~ 0.92, precluded at aw ≤ 0.60.
Triggered under specific environmental or clinical cause.
A. niger / A. terreus
Elevated water activity at inspection; storage condition
violations; patient-population immunocompromise
concern.
Lower clinical significance than A. flavus and A. fumigatus.
Routine speciation for the two retained species is sufficient.
TAMC / TYM
Department quality-assurance initiative; broad-spectrum
contamination suspicion.
Neither test yields actionable signal on this product matrix at
aw ≤ 0.60. Available if Department identifies cause.
Authority preserved in full. Routine testing aligned with the actual consumer-safety risk profile in this matrix.

===== PAGE 90 =====
Microbiological Panel (Table 1) Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment
Addendum B  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 8
References
Cited in this addendum
[1] FDA. Water Activity in Foods, Inspection Technical Guide.
 https://www.fda.gov/inspections-compliance-enforcement-and-criminal-investigations/inspection-technical-guides/water-activity-aw-foods
[2] WHO. Mycotoxins Fact Sheet.
 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/mycotoxins
[3] Aspergillus pathogenicity review. PMC 2021.
 https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8363598/
[4] CDC. Shiga Toxin-Producing E. coli.
 https://www.cdc.gov/e-coli/about/index.html
[5] FDA Bad Bug Book. Clostridium botulinum.
 https://www.fda.gov/food/foodborne-pathogens/clostridium-botulinum
[6] USP <2023>. Microbiological Attributes of Nonsterile Nutritional and Dietary Supplements.
 http://uspbpep.com/usp29/v29240/usp29nf24s0_c2023.html
[7] Ludewig et al. 2024. Microbiological quality of dried mushrooms. MDPI Applied Sciences 14(5), 2208.
 https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/14/5/2208
Existing regulated program comparators
Colorado (CO) testing panel requirements
 https://knowing-flight-1ea.notion.site/colorado-co-testing-panel-requirements
Oregon (OR) testing panel requirements
 https://knowing-flight-1ea.notion.site/oregon-or-testing-panel-requirements
Additional references
USP standards
USP <2023> Full Tables (PDF): https://www.drugfuture.com/Pharmacopoeia/usp35/PDF/0962-0965%20%5B2023%5D%20MICROBIOLOGICAL%20ATTRIB
 UTES%20OF%20NONSTERILE%20NUTRITIONAL%20AND%20DIETARY%20SUPPLEMENTS.pdf
Operating state psilocybin programs
1 CCR 213-1, Part 4 (Colorado Regulated Natural Medicine)
 
OAR 333-333-7010 through 7100 (Oregon Psilocybin Services)
 
Cannabis state regulations
Medicinal Genomics, state-by-state cannabis microbial testing: https://medicinalgenomics.com/resource/cannabis-microbial-testing-regulations-by-state/
 
NM medical cannabis (7.34.4 NMAC): https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-mexico/N-M-Admin-Code-SS-7.34.4.10
 
CO cannabis contaminant testing (1 CCR 212-3): https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/colorado/1-CCR-212-3-4-215
 
CA water activity for cannabis flower (4 CCR 15717): https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/california/4-CCR-15717
 
PMC, State Cannabis Contaminant Regulations comparison, 2022: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9472674/
 
Dried mushroom studies
Ludewig et al. 2024: https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/14/5/2208
 
EFSA/Czech B. cereus study (Sykorova et al.): https://efsa.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2903/fr.efsa.2026.FR-0090
 
Pathogen survival during drying: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956713521008537
 
Aspergillus and mycotoxins
WHO Mycotoxins Fact Sheet: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/mycotoxins
 
FDA Mycotoxins Overview: https://www.fda.gov/food/natural-toxins-food/mycotoxins
 
Aspergillus on dried mushrooms, Nigeria, 2013: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23454813/
 
Advanced Science, Aspergillus mycotoxin review, 2025: https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/advs.202412757
 
Pathogen references
CDC Botulism: https://www.cdc.gov/botulism/about/index.html
 
CDC STEC: https://www.cdc.gov/e-coli/about/index.html
 
FDA, Salmonella Stanley / dried wood ear outbreak, 2020:
 https://www.fda.gov/food/outbreaks-foodborne-illness/outbreak-investigation-salmonella-stanley-wood-ear-mushrooms-dried-fungus-september-2020
NACMCF RTE Testing Guidance (PDF): https://www.fsis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/media_file/2022-03/NACMCF_2018-2020_RTE_Testing.pdf
 
Water activity
Anresco, Moisture and water activity explained: https://anresco.com/cannabis-rd/moisture-water-activity/
 
Eurofins, Microbiological specifications in food operations: https://www.eurofinsus.com/food-testing/resources/microbiological-specifications-in-food-operations/
 
===== PAGE 91 =====
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 1
Panel Breakdown, Per-Organism Analysis
Addendum C to Public Comment | New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Program
NMAC 7.35.2 | Propagation and Testing
Prepared by Gregory Evans | April 23, 2026
Target-by-target analysis supporting §19.E Items 22 and 23 of the public comment on 7.35.2 NMAC. Each entry evaluates one
organism against the product matrix, pharmacopeial standards, and the §19 release window. Companion to Addendum B. Method
selection and validated SOPs remain with accredited laboratories.
1. E. coli, 100 CFU/g
Routing:  Routine, §19.E Table 1, 100 CFU/g
Standard fecal hygiene indicator across food and pharmaceutical frameworks. USP <2023> requires E. coli absent in 10g for
nonsterile botanical supplements. The rule's 100 CFU/g is a quantitative action level, less stringent than the USP absence
standard. Consistent with cannabis regulatory practice. Generic E. coli also serves as the biological surrogate for STEC (Section
4): same fecal transmission vector, same upstream controls. Minimum growth aw ≈ 0.95, precluded at aw ≤ 0.60.
2. Aspergillus, Present (individual species)
Routing:  Routine — A. flavus and A. fumigatus, Present, reported individually (§19.E.2)
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered — A. niger and A. terreus
A. flavus produces aflatoxins, potent carcinogens and hepatotoxins regulated under WHO and FDA guidance. A. fumigatus is the
primary cause of invasive aspergillosis and is clinically consequential in immunocompromised patients, a population this
therapeutic program will include. Both warrant routine batch-release screening.
A. niger and A. terreus are opportunistic agents documented almost exclusively in severely immunosuppressed individuals
(dialysis, transplant, hematologic malignancy). Neither is required by USP <2023>. Their inclusion on routine, paired with collective
reporting, dilutes the diagnostic signal from the two species that actually drive patient risk.
Reporting matters. The current §19.E.2 permits laboratories to report the four Aspergillus species collectively. Under collective
reporting an A. flavus detection (serious aflatoxin concern, batch-reject) is indistinguishable on a certificate of analysis from an A.
niger detection (negligible risk in this matrix). Amending §19.E.2 to require individual-species reporting preserves the diagnostic
value the test exists to produce.
Action level. Presence-based reporting is appropriate given the therapeutic context. Aflatoxin exposure and invasive aspergillosis
in a medical product do not tolerate a quantitative threshold argument. Water activity ≤ 0.60 precludes post-release growth of any
Aspergillus species.
3. Salmonella spp., Present
Routing:  Routine, §19.E Table 1, action level Present
USP <2023> baseline for botanical supplements and USP <62> baseline for oral-route nonsterile pharmaceuticals. High severity if
detected, low per-test cost, biologically plausible under contamination scenarios that matter. Transmission requires animal-origin
fecal contamination; facility separation from livestock, an operational standard, removes the vector upstream of testing. Minimum
growth aw ≈ 0.94, precluded at aw ≤ 0.60.
Only one documented outbreak in dried mushrooms (imported wood ear, FDA 2020), involving an uncontrolled import supply chain
distinct from indoor cultivation under this rule.

===== PAGE 92 =====
Panel Breakdown, Per-Organism Analysis
Addendum C  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 2
4. Shiga-toxin producing E. coli (STEC), Present
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered. Redundant with generic E. coli on routine.
STEC is a pathogenic subset of E. coli defined by stx1/stx2 toxin genes. It shares the exact fecal transmission vector as generic E.
coli. When generic E. coli is absent in the sample, STEC is necessarily absent. Separate STEC testing duplicates the same
contamination class rather than adding an independent safety layer.
Food-source STEC contamination is almost exclusively linked to cattle and ruminants (ground beef, raw dairy, manure-runoff
produce). No plausible pathway exists in indoor-cultivated dried mushroom product. Manure-based substrates, where used,
undergo composting, aging, drying, and thermal pasteurization before cultivation contact, as locked by the Propagation
Committee's adopted framework.
Not listed in USP <2023>, <61>, or <62>. Available under §19.E.1 if substrate pasteurization fails, water system contamination is
observed, or positive generic E. coli at routine flags the contamination class.
5. Clostridium botulinum, Present
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered
C. botulinum requires strict anaerobic conditions and aw > 0.94 to germinate and produce toxin. Dried product at aw ≤ 0.60 is the
opposite of every required condition: aerobic and well below the growth floor. Spores are environmentally ubiquitous but do not
germinate or produce toxin in dried, aerobic matrices. Botulism risk lives in improperly canned foods, vacuum-sealed moist
products, oil infusions, and fermented products, none of which are authorized under §11 (Allowed Psilocybin Products).
Not listed in USP <2023>, <61>, or <62>. Not required by any cannabis or psilocybin regulatory program. No documented botulism
case linked to dried mushrooms of any kind.
Anaerobic culture is also the single most expensive test on the panel and its turnaround strains the §19 30-day release window
without a corresponding safety benefit. Available under §19.E.1 if a non-dried product form is authorized or if aw > 0.94 is observed
at inspection.
6. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Present
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered. Misapplied standard on current panel.
USP <62> lists P. aeruginosa, but scopes it specifically to topical, inhaled, and mucosal products: wound care, eye drops, nasal
sprays, vaginal products. The standard does not apply to orally ingested products. USP <2023> does not list it for botanical
supplements. Applying a route-specific standard to the wrong route is a category error.
Minimum growth aw ≈ 0.97, precluded at 0.60 by a wide margin. Desiccation during drying further reduces viability. Oral ingestion is
not a recognized foodborne illness pathway for this organism in immunocompetent patients. The clinical significance (wound
infection, respiratory colonization) requires exposure routes that do not exist for this product.
Available under §19.E.1 on water system failure, storage non-compliance, elevated moisture at inspection, or authorization of a
topical, inhaled, or mucosal product form.

===== PAGE 93 =====
Panel Breakdown, Per-Organism Analysis
Addendum C  |  NMAC 7.35.2
Gregory Evans  |  Public Comment on NMAC 7.35.2  |  Presented 4/24/2026
Page 3
7. Listeria, Present
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered
L. monocytogenes is dangerous because it grows at refrigeration temperatures, which is what makes it a risk in cold-chain
ready-to-eat foods (deli meats, soft cheeses, smoked fish, fresh produce). It is not a shelf-stable dried botanical organism.
Minimum growth aw ≈ 0.92, precluded at aw ≤ 0.60. No documented listeriosis outbreaks linked to dried mushroom products.
Not required by USP <2023> for botanicals. Required by USDA/FDA for refrigerated RTE products, not for shelf-stable dried
botanicals.
Available under §19.E.1 on post-harvest handling contamination, patient-population epidemiological concern, or inspection
findings.
8. Trichoderma, Present
Routing:  §19.E.1 triggered. Ghost test on a homogenized product.
Not a human pathogen. Not classified as foodborne by any regulatory body worldwide. Produces no toxins relevant to oral
exposure. EPA registers T. harzianum as a beneficial biocontrol agent sold commercially for agricultural disease suppression.
Invasive Trichoderma infections exist in the medical literature but exclusively in severely immunocompromised patients (dialysis,
transplant, hematologic malignancy), almost always from environmental or respiratory exposure rather than ingestion. Global case
count: low dozens over decades.
Homogenized-product problem. On powder, Trichoderma detection functions as a cultivation process quality indicator, not a
product safety indicator. It says "the grow was contaminated," not "the consumer is at risk." Detection on homogenized product
cannot be traced to origin, linked to a specific process failure, or connected to a consumer safety outcome. Water activity ≤ 0.60
precludes active growth regardless of historical load.
Not in any standard. Not listed in USP <2023>, <61>, or <62>; not in FDA foodborne guidance; not in the European
Pharmacopoeia; not in any U.S. cannabis program. Cultivation Trichoderma concerns are better handled upstream under §23
(Producer Requirements for Sanitation and Product Handling, incorporating the 2022 FDA Food Code) and through on-site
department monitoring under §25 (Monitoring and Corrective Actions), with §19.E.1 available if an inspection or audit identifies
cause.
9. Total Yeast and Molds (TYM), > 20 CFU
Routing:  Remove from Table 1. Available under §19.E.1.
TYM measures fungi. The product is dried fungal biomass. The test is category-incompatible with the matrix. Any TYM count on
dried mushroom product captures spores from the target organism itself alongside environmental fungi and substrate organisms.
Achieving ≤ 20 CFU would require near-pharmaceutical-grade cleanroom processing or terminal sterilization. No meaningful
interpretation is available.
The threshold has no apparent basis. The proposed > 20 CFU action level (unit unspecified, presumably per gram) does not
correspond to any recognized standard:
Standard
Limit
USP <2021> nonsterile pharma
100 to 1,000 CFU/g
Colorado cannabis flower
< 10,000 CFU/g
Ludewig 2024 retail dried mushrooms (n=61)
~30 to 40 CFU/g, deemed acceptable
At 20 CFU/g the threshold is roughly 500x more stringent than NM's own medical cannabis program and would fail dried mushroom
samples that peer-reviewed research deemed acceptable.
No threshold fix resolves the incompatibility. The issue is the test itself on this matrix, not the number. Water activity ≤ 0.60
physically precludes active fungal growth post-release, which is the outcome a TYM limit is intended to protect. TAMC is similarly
inappropriate for routine: at aw ≤ 0.60 bacterial growth cannot occur, and the retained specific pathogen tests cover the bacterial
organisms of concern. Both TYM and TAMC remain available under §19.E.1.
References for every organism above are consolidated under References in Addendum B.

