===== PAGE 1 =====
NEW MEXICO DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
PROPOSED ADOPTION OF NEW RULE 7.35.2 NMAC 
RULEMAKING HEARING 
 
REPORT OF HEARING OFFICER  
Public Hearing:  Proposed Adoption of New Rule 7.35.2 NMAC  
Actions in Question: Rule Promulgation Hearing 
Hearing Date:  April 24, 2026 
Report Date:  May 26, 2026 
 
Introduction 
 
 A public hearing was held on Friday, April 24, 2026, at 9:02 a.m. in person at the Harold 
Runnels Building located at 1190 St. Francis Drive, Santa Fe, New Mexico and via the Microsoft 
Teams web conference platform and via telephone .  The hearing was held for the purpose of 
considering the Department of Health’s (“DOH” or “the Department”) proposed adoption of new 
rule 7. 35.2 NMAC (“ New Mexico Psilocybin Program ”) in the New Mexico Department of 
Health’s rules. 
 
The Notice of Public Hearing 
 
 The Notice of Public Hearing (“the Notice”) states that the public hearing would be 
conducted to receive public comments regarding the proposed new rule 7.35.2 NMAC concerning 
the New Mexico Psilocybin Program.  The hearing was held pursuant to NMSA 1978, §9 -7-6(E) 
of the Department of Health Act; and NMSA 1978, §26-2D-7 of the Medical Psilocybin Act. See 
DOH Exhibit No. 3. 
 
 The Notice of Public Hearing further states that the purpose of the proposed adoption of 
the new rule is to adopt standards for psilocybin producers and psilocybin testing laboratories in 
the NM Medical Psilocybin Program. The Notice lists in detail most of the individual sections of 
the proposed new rule, and describes what each is intended to do. See DOH Exhibit No. 3. 
 
Summary of Proceedings 
 
 Craig T. Erickson presided as Hearing Officer at the hearing. The DOH was represented by 
Chris Woodward, Deputy General Counsel for the Department. The other participants in the 
hearing included the following individuals: 
 
1. Dominick Zurlo, Director of the Center for Medical Cannabis & Psilocybin at the 
DOH; 
 
===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
2. Jacob Clark, law clerk and office manager of the Office of General Counsel at the 
Department.  
 
The proceeding was recorded via Microsoft Teams, and began at approximately 9:02 a.m. 
 
The Hearing Officer opened the proceeding by introducing himself and Mr. Woodward. 
The Hearing Officer also introduced Dr. Zurlo. The Hearing Officer stated that he had been 
appointed to act as hearing officer in this matter by Cabinet Secretary Gina DeBlassie. The Hearing 
Officer then explained that the purpose of the hearing was to give the public an opportunity to 
comment on the proposed new rule 7.35.2 NMAC.  
 
The Hearing Office noted that, pursuant to notice, this matter was heard on the 24th day of 
April, in-person and via Microsoft Teams online and via telephone.  Also, pursuant to notice, the 
Hearing Officer stated that the public had been given the opportunity to comment on the proposed 
rule in-person, via  Microsoft Teams, and telephonically. The Hearing Officer also stated that 
opportunity was given to the public to submit written comments via email message s through the 
close of business on the day of hearing.  
 
 The Hearing Officer explained that the hearing would proceed as follows: 
 
• Dr. Zurlo would give a brief introduction regarding the proposed new rule.  
 
• Mr. Woodward would then introduce and move for the admission of the hearing exhibits 
into the record. 
 
• The Hearing Officer would then take public comments on each section of the rule from 
those wishing to offer comments. Each person would be allotted five minutes to speak. 
 
The Hearing Officer also explained that the Department is not bound by the formal rules 
of evidence during these proceedings. However, the Hearing Officer may, in his discretion, exclude 
evidence that is incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious. The Hearing Office may 
take notice of judicially cognizable, technical or scientific facts within the Department’s 
specialized knowledge. 
 
Introductory Remarks of Dominick Zurlo 
 
 Dr. Zurlo stated that essentially the new rule covers the initiation and application process 
for cultivators of medical psilocybin, the transportation of medical psilocybin, and the rules for 
applications and starting of psilocybin testing laboratories. He stated that the proposed rule has 
been published on the Department website and on the Sunsh ine portal.  He noted that the 
Department had also posted on the Sunshine portal a list of anticipated revisions.  For those who 
were present in -person, the list w as also made available in the back of the auditorium. The 
anticipated revisions are for Section 7.35.2.7.  
 
 Dr. Zurlo explained that the definition of “actual control” was revised to state that actual 
control means the ability to (a) control the policies, management, or personnel of a permittee; (b) 
===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
 
control strategic priorities, capital allocations, acquisitions and divestments of a permittee: or (c) 
control a majority of the voting rights of a permittee. He notes that these revisions are based upon 
comments that have been submitted to the Department.  
 
 Dr. Zurlo then stated that the second revision is to 7.35. 2.7(A)(2) NMAC. Here, the 
definition of “administration session ” is revised to state that “ . . .‘administration session’ means 
the session in which psilocybin is administered.”  
 
 Dr. Zurlo next stated that 7.35.2.(I)(2) NMAC has been revised to state that “inoculate” 
means the process of introducing psilocybin spores or mycelium into growth medium.    
 
 Dr. Zurlo continued as follows: 
 
 7.35.2.8 NMAC has been revised concerning the application submittal requirements. The 
general requirements have been revised to state that an applicant for a producer or laboratory 
permit shall provide to the Department and shall maintain, in Subsection ( A)(9), proof of 
ownership of the facility or a signed written statement from the owner of the property 
acknowledging that the owner understands that psilocybin products will be produced or tested on 
the premises. 
 
 7.35.2.9(C) NMAC was revised to state that restrictions on transferability of permits is not 
allowed by sale, assignment, or otherwise, except as approved by the Department upon the death 
of a sole proprietor.  
 
 7.35.2.19(E) NMAC has been revised regarding total yeast and molds action level from 20 
CFU to 1000 CFU. This revision is based on the recommended limit set by American Herbal 
Products Association for yeast and molds in powdered dried food products.   
 
 7.35.2.19(F) NMAC has been revised to specify that water content shall be less than 10% 
in order to pass water content testing.   
 
 7.35.2.26(B) NMAC has been revised to specify that a copy of a notice of immediate 
suspension or notice of proposed disciplinary action will be transmitted to the permittee via e-mail 
in addition to service via certified U.S. mail.  
 
 The table in 7.35.2.19 NMAC has been revised to modify certain pesticide testing action 
levels as follows: 
 
• Abamectin has been revised from level 0.01 to 0.15. 
• Bifenthrin has been revised from level 0.05 to 0.10. 
• Metrafenone has been revised from level 0.05 to 0.5.  
 
Those revisions are to correct typographic errors and to more closely reflect some of the relevant 
standards currently.    
 
 
===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
 
 
   
 
Introduction of the Exhibits by Chris Woodward 
 
 Mr. Woodward provided a summary of the proposed exhibits for the hearing, which had 
been previously submitted to the Hearing Officer. Mr. Woodward stated as follows: 
 
 He stated that the proposed exhibits  were not currently available on the date of hearing 
DOH website, but were available on the Sunshine Portal.   
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 1: Mr. Woodward stated that this is a letter dated February 24, 2026, in 
which State Records gives its approval for a new chapter, Title 7, Chapter 35, Medical Use of 
Psilocybin. 
  
 DOH Exhibit No. 2 is the proposed new rule. 
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 3  is the Notice of Public Hearing for this rulemaking process. It is the 
notice of hearing for the hearing being held on April 24, with a description of the proposed rule 
and how public comments can be submitted. 
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 4 is an affidavit of publication from the Albuquerque Journal. It attests 
to the publication of the notice of hearing that was published on March 24 in the classifieds of the 
Albuquerque Journal. 
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 5 is an affidavit of publication for the New Mexico Register, and it attests 
that the notice of hearing was duly published in the New Mexico Register by State Records Center 
and Archives on that same date. 
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 6 is the letter appointing Craig Erickson as hearing officer in this 
rulemaking proceeding.  
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 7  is an affidavit from Jacob Clark attesting to the various things the 
Department of Health has done to comply with the notice requirements of the State Rules Act.  
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 8 is the list of anticipated revisions to 7.35.2 NMAC that Dr. Zurlo was 
referring to.  
 
 DOH Exhibit No. 9 is reserved for all written comments that may be submitted in this 
proceeding. The Notice of Public Hearing stated that the Department would accept written public 
comments up to the close of business on April 24, 2026. 
  
Mr. Woodward then moved for the admission of DOH Exhibit Nos. 1 through 9. The 
motion was granted at hearing, and the Exhibits became part of the record in this proceeding.  
 
===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
 
On May 13, 2026, Mr. Woodward submitted a written response to the written public 
comments on behalf of the Department.  That document was made DOH Exhibit No. 10 and the 
Hearing Officer admitted it as part of the record in this proceeding.   
 
Public Comments 
 
 The following are the comments that were offered by members of the public at hearing.   
 
Public Comment of Denali Wilson  
 
 Ms. Wilson is the state director of strategic support for the Healing Advocacy Fund, which 
is a nonprofit organization that supports state regulated access to psychedelic healing with a focus 
on access and equity within the systems.  She stated that she is grateful for the Department’s 
prioritizing this rule, and for being willing to consider recommendations that have been made to 
improve the protections offered by the rule.  
 
 Ms. Wilson stated that New Mexico, as a state, has  really long history of economic 
exploitation and extraction. She stated that we all have a shared interest in making sure that this 
not become another place where outside money and interests come in and take advantage of our 
people and our resources. She stated that the amendments do not fully address this problem.  Even 
with the changes to “actual control,” the regulations continue to still broadly restrict ownership 
arrangements and risk unintentionally  prohibit things that are beneficial and legitimate non -
predatory financing arrangements, while at the same time not protecting enough to prohibit more 
sophisticated arrangements of disguised control or other deceitful and predatory practices.  
 
 Ms. Wilson stated that, under current draft regulations and under the proposed 
amendments, it is still unclear whether a party could, and if so, how they could invest in a permittee 
without taking responsibility for the compliance and actions of the permittee. 
 
 She argued that given the lack of traditional investment vehicles that are available in this 
“space,” involving a Schedule 1 substance, we don’t have traditional financing and banks and that 
lack of clarity would lock away needed capital from even friends and family investments out of 
local operations. 
 
 Ms. Wilson hopes that there is an opportunity to continue to “iterate on” and improve these 
critical and foundational protections further in the rulemaking process. She believes that the 
solution is not to restrict investment broadly, but instead to distinguish clearly  between those who 
are exercising actual control over a permitted business and those who hold a more passive interest. 
 
 Consequently, her organization has offered some suggestions that reframe these 
distinctions in order to strengthen protections for permittees in the program from bad actors while 
preserving access to very limited capital in the field.  
 
 Ms. Wilson then moved to another equity issue that was discussed a lot in subcommittee 
and part of her organizations written feedback —what she described as the landlord attestation 
piece.  She acknowledges that New Mexico is the first state to allow for non -property owners to 
===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
 
operate within the cannabis industry.  She asserts that that was a tremendous stop in equity and 
access in the cannabis space and changed dramatically the national landscape.  She is really proud 
to live in a state that modelled that. She also knows that it created new challenges, and she is 
grateful that the Department has taken an interest in making sure that we protect tenants.  
 
However, she thinks this amendment still needs work. She argued that landlords, even those 
who are supportive of their tenants in the program, are unlikely to provide written approval to 
engage in conduct that remain federally illegal on the premises, and any written attestation would 
amount to written proof in a legally binding document of aiding and abetting the manufacture of a 
Schedule 1 substance as amended. She states that there is still reference to a landlord 
acknowledgement of that activity and she  thinks that will be a major barrier.  She thinks there 
needs to be a landlord lease option and the Department can specify that the lease must protect the 
tenant’s right to participate.  She states that that could include model language of an anti-illegality 
case that requires the landlord not to act on their right to end the contract and the lease.  
 
Ms. Wilson was allowed to offer further comment, beyond her original five minutes, 
because Ms. Hanifa Washington yielded her time to allow Ms. Wilson to continue her comments  
regarding landlord attestation.  She stated that we are talking about a federally illegal activity and 
something that landlords are really going to be unwilling to engage in writing.  Thinking about 
equity and access in all aspects of the industry, she ur ged that the Department makes sure that 
small growers are able to participate.  If you own the property where growers would like to grow, 
she would like to see us spend some time making sure that they get this right. 
 
Her recommendation is that if there is an attestation piece that’s not specifically a Schedule 
1 substance, the landlords will not know whether it’s acknowledgement or approval, or anything 
that requires a landlord to specifically endorse in some way that growing of a Schedule 1 substance 
on their property is going to be ill advised.  
 
  She thinks it would be most beneficial to have a lease option for landlords and tenants who 
would prefer to keep all protective legal agreements within the actual lease.  She asserts that the 
Department could easily write a model lease agreement which would offer this level of protection 
or greater.   
 
 She argued that any access issues that are created at this juncture are going to have a 
foundational impact on the viability and longevity of the actual equity that people experience 
within the program.   
 
 In general, and on compliance and cost, she suggested that it may be helpful for the 
Department to consider a cost analysis for some of the testing requirements that it has outlined, as 
well as a compliance guide. She noted that we want people to comply a nd the Department does 
not want to enforce actions against cultivators; it would rather have people comply.   
 
 
 
 
 
===== PAGE 7 =====
7 
 
Public Comment of Kate Hawke 
 
 Ms. Hawke spoke because she wanted to ask a question.  That is, she had a question about 
a comment that says something about selling to practitioners.  She wonders whether as 
practitioners or medical prescribers, who are the people referred to as “guides.”  
 
 Dr. Zurlo responded to the question by stating that there are placeholders at this time and 
there will be additional rulemaking hearings, which will be clarified at that time. 
 
Public Comment of James Ferreira 
 
 Mr. Ferreira appeared as a representative of Ignite Synergy. He said that “everybody” has 
served in all the rulemaking committees, and the work has been “incredible.”  He stated that the 
speed has been unprecedented, and he thinks that for state agencies on such a topic for just a 
moment, you probably should not be turning your head away.  
 
 Mr. Ferreira stated that one of the things Ignite Synergy has looked at is an outcomes 
focused software force specifically built for psychedelics. He noted that data collection is going to 
be an important piece of this—of being able to actually say what our outcomes are.   
 
 He stated that we’re forming a medical advisory board and they would like people to know.  
He said that people can contact them and let them know they would like to be on the board so that 
they can make some really smart decisions about data and data management. Thus, he said, when 
they start collecting data, it will actually mean something. This is the first time humans have ever 
collected this type of data, and they think it is really important.   
 
Public Comment of Gregory Evans 
 
 Mr. Evans stated that he is an independent mycologist. He has no formal affiliations.  His 
written public comment indicates that he is a Contributing Member of the MPAB 1 Propagation 
Committee. He noted that he had submitted a formal public comment on the morning of the 
hearing. He said he wanted to summarize the high points of that comment.  
 
 He stated that the Department had adopted the 10% water content in the rule and that is the 
correct direction. The water content measures total moisture; it does not measure whether anything 
can actually grow in the product. That, he said, would be water activity. He further stated that if 
the water content is at 0.6 aw most of the testing panel for microbials will not be able to grow.  In 
addition, if we maintain cadence testing with water content and water availability, we will be able 
to reduce the cost to all parties with a $25 sample cost. He said that there’s a lot more impact on 
that, but we can reduce the microbial testing by utilizing that initial release test and keeping storage 
within a constraint parameter.   
 
 Mr. Evans stated that there were a number of items in the traceability section that required 
some refinement. Further, there were areas where cultivation batch was not included in the lot 
 
1 Medical Psilocybin Advisory Board. 
===== PAGE 8 =====
8 
 
hierarchy and other section so that lot hierarchy definitions are all mapped out in the 
recommendation.   
 
 Mr. Evans also stated that “among the definitions I have eight amendments on a high level.”  
He noted the corrected typo in “inoculate” and recommend ed a definition of  “inoculate” stating 
that the term means the process of introducing spores, mycelium, or spawn into growth medium. 
He said that “inoculate” is a verb and needs to be treated as such.   
 
 He has a detailed recommendation [in his written comment] on “psilocybin” and stated he 
would let that stand.  Mr. Evans stated that, as is the difference between cultivation and 
manufacture though have overlapping scope. He stated that he has also detailed how to clean that 
mapping and define the definition between the moment of cultivations and the moment of 
manufacture relating back to relating to traceability.  He said that “in that section there is another 
definition of where unique identification numbers (UIDs) change from stage to stage.” “Basically 
we were missing batch and then when we become a “harvest lot the definition” and the definition 
of that was ambiguous.” 
 
 Mr. Evan stated that he has clarified the definition of “mycelium.”  He stated that 
“’mycelium’ means the vegetative body of a fungus , composed of a network of filamentous 
structures called ‘hyphae’.” 
 
Public Comment of James Brown 
 
 Mr. Brown represents Five Degree Healing Foundation.  This entity is a nonprofit 
organization in New Mexico that focuses on veterans, first responders, PTSD, and other things.  
He stated that they are hoping to be a center that offers administrative sessions for whatever that 
definition or terminology would be. He stated that he has trained in Oregon in a psilocybin-focused 
12-week program, which he thinks would be very beneficial for New Mexico to look at as we get 
through that program.  
 
 He stated that he wanted to focus his comments on 7.35.2.9 NMAC—the general permittee 
requirements.  He stated that with New Mexico being such a rural state, such an amazing and 
beautiful state, we really have to think about that when we think about these rules. We should use 
that as a filter. He asserted that with this medicine that will be provided to people, they will have 
the opportunity to experience something that  they have had experience with before, and maybe 
have not experienced before. Thus, his focus is on just that —"the whole dual ownership. ”  He 
stated:  “My whole thing today is . . . to allow us to the wording or I really think we just focus on 
not saying and restricting so much of that language of saying you cannot own both.” As a 
mycologist, you are going to have these groups of people, so you can have this great network that 
these people can tap into.  He has owned quite a few businesses and within that, you need the 
opportunity to grow your own business because you might have Fiber 5 [?] people within your 
network, like in a nonprofit, and those people might be specialists in their groups, and within that 
you might have a grower, a mycologist. You might also have a doctor within that same group in 
that nonprofit—he wants to be able to have a center.  
 
===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
 
 Continuing his discussion of the rural nature of New Mexico, he noted Roswell, and 
Farmington, where there are only going to be some many providers, so many facilitators, so many 
centers.   
 
Public Comment of John Dennis 
 
 Mr. Dennis did not appear in person; he participated  in the hearing on-line.  He stated that 
he was appearing on behalf of the Psychedelic Bar Association, which he described as a New 
Mexico Working Group.  That group includes nine lawyer s and legal professionals from across 
New Mexico and the United States who are volunteering their time to engage with and provide 
input into New Mexico’s rulemaking.  He stated that in order to help ensure that this program is 
the best that it can be, they submitted written comments.  He spoke to two of the points raised in 
those comments.   
 
 First, he highlighted their input into “taxation” under Section 2 80(E) of the Internal 
Revenue Code. He stated that if the goal of the program is to keep costs as low as they can be 
under Section 2 80(E), liability should be really minimized to the extent possible. He stated that 
Section 280(E) is a tax rule that requires any organization or individual who is trafficking in a 
Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 substance must pay taxes and is not able to deduct the standard 
deductions and expenses that they incur in the cost of operating their business.   
 
 He stated that, with respect to how to minimize tax liability in the state of Oregon in its 
psilocybin program, the common practice is for operators to bifurcate their liability so that those 
portions of their operations that are plant touching or mushroom  touching that would be engaged 
in trafficking activities are maintained separately from other aspects of the operations that are not 
plant touching. Thus, he asserted, all of that liability can’t be isolated and contained within as small 
a portion of operations as possible.  
 
He argued that this type of structuring is pretty common.  He further stated that not 
everybody structures their organizations that way, but many do, and it substantially reduces the 
amount of tax liability those organizations have.  
 
Mr. Dennis stated that they understand that there is a very legitimate state interest in 
avoiding diversion and similar types of behaviors, but there are a series of protections and 
guardrails that should go around this. He stated that is , the facilitator or guide is not actually 
delivering the substances to clients or patients, that would enable those multiple hours, potentially 
as many as ten hours per administration session to not be taxed at this significantly higher level.  
 
Thus, Mr. Dennis argues that if the state were to allow some kind of abbreviated touch 
point with the actual transfer of psilocybin to the patients directly, it could provide an opportunity 
to save costs, and reduce the tax burden.   
 
Mr. Dennis argues that this is a really significant aspect of this, and it is more significant 
for those who are familiar with the way that Section 280(E) plays out in the cannabis space. With 
cannabis, it’s just retail, so you’re not really having to pay for hours of support and supervision 
and facilitation and that sort of thing. Consequently, he stated, the impact that Section 280 (E) has 
===== PAGE 10 =====
10 
 
on a regulated services model such as New Mexico’s is significantly more than it is even in the 
cannabis space. Thus, allowing these direct sales, or some interim person who is not otherwise 
providing like hours of service to patient, is a pretty good opportunity to keep costs low and keep 
it as affordable as possible.  
 
Mr. Dennis then turned to the second point he wanted to discuss. He noted that the written 
comments he submitted speak about the accidental, potentially inadvertent, authorization of 
religious use in the state of New Mexico by the passage of the Medical Ps ilocybin Act. He stated 
that they cited three cases in their written materials that stand for the proposition that if the State 
of New Mexico or any state is authorizing legal psilocybin access for any reason, it then under 
current US Supreme Court precedent must also authorize religious use of that substance. Thus, he 
requested that the religious use cases should not be disparaged in this process, and to the extent 
that this could result in potential harms that can come from community use in unregulated or  
unsupervised settings, the state may wish to take action to ensure that there are safeguards and 
there is some kind of support.  
 
Participants who were present for the hearing but did not make public comments include 
the following: 
   
1. Chris Peskuski 
2. Clifford M. Rees 
3. Gabriel Smith 
4. Julie S_k__  
5. Tyke Pinch, Jaded Janes 
6. Celeste Lugan, Jaded Janes 
7. Michael Williams, Limina Foundation 
8. Toby Rosenblatt, NMDOH 
9. Hanifa Washington, PMHA Alliance 
10. Brenda Bangard, DOH Advisory Board Member Chair 
11. Skye Rivers, Santa Fe Reporter 
12. David Barre, NMDOH 
13. Gregory Burgard, NMDOH 
14. Breanna Wunder, El Centro Family Health  
15. Mateo Frazier, COSMICA, LLC 
 
There were no further, on -line public comments, and no comments from telephonic 
participants.  
 
The Hearing Officer then explained that he would be writing a report to the Cabinet 
Secretary, in which he would summarize the public comments offered at hearing as well as the 
written comments that had been submitted to the Department. He would then make a written 
recommendation to the Cabinet Secretary regarding the proposed new rule.   
 
The Hearing Officer thanked the participants for their public statements and adjourned the 
hearing.   
  
===== PAGE 11 =====
11 
 
Written Public Comments  
 
 The following is a summary of the written public comments2 submitted in this rulemaking 
process: 
 
The Written Public Comment of James Brown 
 
 Mr. Brown recommended that the Department adopt definitions for several terms, as 
follows: “referring clinician,” determining clinician,” “guides or facilitators,” and “integration 
provider. He asked for guidance regarding who these people would be, i.e., physicians, certified 
nurse practitioners, physicians assistants, psychiatrists, or other specialized clinicians.  See DOH 
Exhibit No. 9. 
 
 Mr. Brown also proposed that the Department incorporate additional text in the rule to 
require three classes of recalls.   
 
 He further recommended that the prohibition against dual ownership by a permittee be 
modified to allow a person who holds either a producer or laboratory permit to hold an interest in 
another permittee, as long as there is a clear separation between each permittee’s operations.  
 
The Joint Public Comment: Proposed Propagation Regulations of the Healing Advocacy Fund and 
the Rudick Law Group3 
 
 This public comment was submitted by Denali Wilson, Esq., and Victoria Cvitanovic, Esq.4 
on behalf of the Healing Advocacy Fund and the Rudick Law Group. See DOH Exhibit No. 9. 
They focused on compliance implementation, financial feasibility, and liability reduction for all 
parties involved, and asserted that addressing those areas thoroughly will dramatically impact 
equity and access within the program. 
 
 The authors of this comment noted the novel nature of New Mexico’s Psilocybin Program. 
They argue that the regulatory decisions made now will shape the Program’s safety, integrity, 
accessibility, invest ability, and equity for years to come. The authors state that they approach their 
comments from a place of commitment to the success of the Program and a sincere commitment 
to accomplishing the goals of the Department. They assert that they applied a critical lens to their 
comments, asking how opposing coun sel, investors, financiers, and others could use the draft 
regulations to undermine the goals of the Department to protect operators, patients, and providers 
to further their own interests.   
 
 The authors state that their comments address four primary areas of concern: 
 
1. Gaps in protections against predatory financing and disguised control; 
2. Clarity regarding rules into investment into permitted businesses; 
3. The feasibility, costs, and risks of compliance posed by the draft rules; 
 
2 All of the written public comments are located in DOH Exhibit No. 9.  
3 Designated as the “Joint Public Comment” herein.  
4 Hereinafter collectively referred to “the authors.” 
===== PAGE 12 =====
12 
 
4. Other equity and access issues; and 
5. Issues the proposed regulations create related to insurance coverage for care and 
professional liability insurance. 
 
For each of the foregoing areas, they offer recommended action.  The authors assert that the issues 
here are serious, and if left unaddressed, they present meaningful risks to safety, stability of the 
supply chain, accessibility, and participation in the r egulated Program. These risks, they argue, 
could undermine the goals the Program was designed to achieve.  
 
1. Gaps in protections against predatory financing and disguised control; 
 
The authors state that “predatory financing” can be defined as any financing arrangement 
in which the economic terms, structural features, or contractual conditions effectively transfer 
operational control, primary economic benefit, or decision -making auth ority over a licensed 
cultivator to an unlicensed third party, without that party undergoing the licensing and suitability 
review required of a direct owner or controlling party.  
 
They further state that predatory financing is distinct from legitimate investment risk, 
which includes market -rate interest, standard loan covenants protecting collateral, equity stakes 
with proportionate governance rights held by vetted investors, and re venue-sharing arrangements 
tied to actual profit rather than gross extraction. The authors urge that the rules should not be so 
broad that they discourage the capital formation that Program participants need. 
 
They argue that two primary harms result from predatory financing: economic extraction 
and disguised control. They suggest that economic extraction should be thought of as arrangements 
designed to strip revenue or assets from the permittee on terms no commercially reasonable lender 
or investor would demand absent leverage over a regulated entity.  They argue that business 
participating in state progra ms that allow otherwise federally illegal conduct are particularly 
vulnerable to the foregoing risks, as these businesses are often excluded from traditional financing.  
 
The authors state that disguised control refers to arrangements that don’t look like 
ownership on paper, but functionally give the financing party the ability to direct cultivation 
practices, hiring, vendor selection, or exit decisions. This may be achieve d through covenant 
packages, exclusive supply or service agreements bundled with the financing, board observer 
rights, or consent rights over material business decisions.   
 
The authors argue that a predatory lender may gain leverage through punishing economic 
terms, and then use that leverage to exercise de facto control. These issues are not disclosed to 
regulators because the party never appears as a licensed owner, and the financing arrangement 
becomes the mechanism for regulatory evasion.   
 
The authors state that when regulators address predatory financing, a single question can 
guide those efforts:  “Would the proposed financing arrangement, taken as a whole, give the 
financing party influence over the licensee that would require licensure i f that influence were 
exercised through direct ownership?”  The authors state that, if so, that arrangement should require 
permittee-level disclosures and responsibilities that flow to the financier, or it should be prohibited.  
===== PAGE 13 =====
13 
 
 
The authors state that, because psilocybin is a Schedule 1 substance under federal law, most 
lending institutions will not provide financing to businesses operating in this arena. Consequently, 
most operators are dependent on private capital arrangements, and carry significant risk of 
exploitation.  Similar dynamics exist in the cannabis industry, and have contributed to widespread 
hardship, forced bankruptcies, and the erosion of equity goal in state-regulated programs. 
 
The authors observe that the draft regulations attempt to address these risks by broadly 
restricting ownership arrangements and transfers of control.  However, they argue that this 
approach is overly broad in ways that would unintentionally prohibit benefi cial arrangements—
such as friends -and-family investment, and legitimate minority ownership stakes, thereby 
destabilizing the supply chain in ways that create profound risk for Program participants, such as 
facing a permit transfer ban after the death of a permittee.   
 
The authors believe that the solution is to distinguish clearly between those who exercise 
actual control over a permitted business and those who hold a passive financial interest.  They 
offer suggested amendments to the draft rules to address those concerns.  
 
The authors propose a much more detailed definition of the term “actual control” that is set 
forth in the proposed rule by the Department found in 7.35.2.7(A) (1) NMAC.  The authors’ 
proposal is found on pages 3 - 4 in the authors’ Joint Public Comment in DOH Exhibit No. 9.5 The 
authors argue that their proposal defines “actual control” in a clear, enforceable manner that can 
be used to address permittees’ compliance, and defines “true party in interest” to ease the 
identification of actual control, and further defines “minor ity participant” to define people and 
entities who have a meaningful connection to a permittee but who does not have actual control 
over, or responsibility for, the actions of a permittee. 
 
The authors also propose a new subsection, which they designate as 7.35.2.7(A)(2) NMAC, 
which would provide for the principle that aggregated influence should be an express consideration 
in the application of the rule. See the Joint Public Comment at page 4 in DOH Exhibit No. 9.   
 
The authors argue that their proposed definition of “actual control” moves away from the 
“ability” to take certain actions, which they argue is difficult to prove and easy to disclaim, toward 
a definition grounded in formal authority as established by owne rship records, formation 
documents, and actual business practices. They assert that this makes the definition easier to 
administer, and harder to evade through creative structuring.   
 
The authors next turn to the definition of “genuine ownership” at 7.35.2.7(G)(1) NMAC. 
They argue in favor of striking this definition, and replacing it with several new definitions for the 
rules—one definition for “true party in interest,” another for “minority participant,” and several 
more “associated’ regulations.  See pages 5 - 7 of the Joint Public Comment found in DOH Exhibit 
No. 9 for the complete proposal.  
 
 
5 Given the length of the authors’ proposed rules, they are not summarized here. The reader should review the 
authors’ proposed rules DOH Exhibit No. 9.  
===== PAGE 14 =====
14 
 
The authors argue that the Department’s proposed definition for “genuine ownership” is 
vague and may invite litigation. Further, they argue that the proposed definition is unclear as to 
how a party can contribute to a permittee if they wish to minimize their own risk. They argue that 
this dynamic will limit the pool of investment available to permittees, and even exclude friends 
and family who may wish to assist without acquiring responsibility for controlled substance 
cultivation.  The auth ors argue that m y defining two distinct categories or participation, the 
Department can regulate actual control, avoid disguised control, prevent predatory financing, and 
encourage investment.   
 
In addition, the authors suggest that the Department may well require registration and 
disclosures from “minority participants” even though they are not true parties in interest.  They 
state that their suggested definition contemplates the addition of “min ority participant” 
responsibilities, even if those responsibilities do not rise to the level of what is expected from a 
true party in interest. 
 
2. Clarity regarding rules into investment into permitted businesses; 
 
The authors of the Joint Public Comment turn next to issues related to the clarity of the 
rules related to investment into permitted businesses. See Joint Public Comment in DOH Exhibit 
No. 9 at pages 8 to 11.  They argue that in the current draft regulations , the “General Permittee 
Requirements,” (which they cite as 7.35.2.1 NMAC but is actually 7.35.2.9 NMAC), it is unclear 
whether and how a party could invest in a permittee without taking responsibility for the 
compliance and actions of that permittee. They argue that given the lack of traditional investment 
vehicles available to permittees, such ambiguity could lock needed capital out of local operations, 
(for example, capital from friends and family investments). 
 
 The authors include a proposed rule, designated as 7.35.2.2 NMAC, to replace rule 7.35.2.9 
NMAC, the General Permittee Requirements. See Joint Public Comment at pages 9 – 11 for the 
proposed amended rule. They argue that the proposed rule should be amended in the manner 
proposed by their amended rule because by tying the dual ownership prohibition in the 
Department’s proposed rule to true party in interest status rather than any ownership interest, the 
amendment allows passive minority investment across mu ltiple permittees while still preventing 
any single person from controlling more than one permitted business. They argue that this approach 
directly addresses the concern about sophisticated investors  using investments in multiple 
operations as a vehicle for consolidating influence over the industry while preserving the ability 
of legitimate investors to support multiple permittees.   
 
 The authors state that the original proposed rule of the Department broadly prohibited any 
transfer of actual control through management, consulting, or intellectual property agreements. 
They argue that while the intent of the Department was sound, the pro posed rule created 
compliance uncertainty for legitimate arrangements, such as shared services agreements between 
related entities.  They also argue that the lack of a succession provision created significant liability 
concerns for spouses, children, and others who may be left with possession of Schedule 1 substance 
cultivation facilities and no legal permit in the case of the death of a true party in interest. 
 
===== PAGE 15 =====
15 
 
 The authors argue that their revised framework addresses the underlying undue influence 
concerns while protecting legitimate investors, friends and families, and business partners. They 
argue that no person should have to worry if their spouse or business partner dies, or if any entity 
dissolves through no fault of their own, that they are suddenly and irrevocably in possession of 
Schedule 1 cultivation with no legal protection. 
 
 The authors argue that the disguised control provision does the core work of the predatory 
financing protections; it prohibits any arrangement through which a person who is not a true party 
in interest exercises actual control over a permittee. They argue further that by framing the 
prohibition around function rather than form, their amendment closes the drafting gaps that 
sophisticated actors wo uld otherwise exploit. Finally, as to this issue, they argue that their 
suggested amendment expressly allows min ority investment while making clear that investment 
cannot be a vehicle for “back-channel control.”    
 
3. The feasibility, costs and risks of compliance posed by the draft rules; 
 
The authors’ next focus addresses overall compliance feasibility and clarity. See pages 11 
- 13. The authors state that the Department’s proposed regulations establish requirements for 
product traceability, food safety, and contaminant testing which are essential to patient safety in 
the regulatory access program.  They support the inclusion of these rules. They do not cite the 
specific rule they refer to; however, they appear to be referring at least to  Subsections 7.35.2.16, 
17, 19, 20, and 21 NMAC, and perhaps others.  
 
The authors argue that certain proposed regulations may exceed what patient safety 
requires.  Others, they argue, fail to provide operators with a clear, administrable compliance 
standard.  They argue that both problems carry real costs, and overly burdens ome or redundant 
testing requirements will drive up production costs that will ultimately be passed on to patients, or 
absorbed by the State and deplete the Treatment Equity Fund. They assert that where compliance 
standards are vague, operators cannot reliably meet them, which creates enforcement uncertainty 
and legal exposure for good-faith participants in the program.  
 
With respect to the issue of cost feasibility, the authors recommend that the Department 
conduct and publish a cost analysis of the testing and production requirements as currently drafted 
in the Department’s proposed rule before the regulations are finalized. They argue that it is likely 
that some requirements will need to be recal ibrated as the program matures. Consequently, they 
recommend that the Department build implementation review metrics into the program from the 
outset which would track testing co sts and contaminant presence data over time with an explicit 
eye toward long -term feasibility so that the regulatory framework can be adjusted based on 
evidence rather than crisis.  
 
On the issues of compliance clarity, the authors assert that where the Department’s 
proposed regulations are ambiguous or undefined, operators are left to guess at what conduct will 
satisfy the requirement.  They argue that this will create inequitable enf orcement; operators with 
more resources can obtain legal guidance —those without more resources cannot. This dynamic 
will expose good -faith operators to disciplinary action for conduct that reasonable actors could 
interpret as compliant.  Thus, they argue t he Department should review the draft regulations for 
===== PAGE 16 =====
16 
 
undefined compliance standards, and either specify the required conduct directly in the text of the 
regulations or commit to publishing guidelines along with the final regulations.  
 
They argue, as an example, that the following original proposed rule and their suggested 
amendment illustrates their point. The original proposed text for 7 .35.2.21(B) NMAC (“Wastage 
of Psilocybin and Psilocybin Products: Permitted”): 
 
Wastage of psilocybin or psilocybin products shall be accomplished by destroying, 
combining or otherwise incorporating the psilocybin or psilocybin product into 
other material making it unusable.  
 
The authors suggest amendment of the foregoing proposed rule: 
 
Wastage of psilocybin or psilocybin products shall be accomplished by destroying 
(by heat treatment, freeze treatment, or other means rendering the substance 
biologically inactive) , combining or otherwise incorporating the psilocybin or 
psilocybin product into other material making it unusable. 
 
The authors state that amendment of the rule should be considered because, where the 
Department’s proposed rule prescribes wastage by “destroying” the product, it does not prescribe 
the means of destruction that are permitted, leaving cultivators to guess what process of destruction 
is permitted. They state that Oregon and Colorado state program operators suggest that heat or 
freeze treatment is a viable, cost-conscious means of product wastage. 
 
The authors next address 7.25.2.10(A) (“General Producer Requirements”). See pages 13 
14 of the Joint Public Comment in DOH Exhibit No. 9 , wherein the authors offer a substantial 
revision to the Department’s proposed rule. The authors’ suggested amendment appears to be an 
unfinished and unedited proposal.  See DOH Exhibit No. 9, id., at page 13. Consequently, their 
intent is ambiguous and unclear. 
 
Their argument, however,  is that the proposed 7.25.2.10(A) NMAC sets out what a 
producer is required to do, but does not explicitly define who is eligible to become a producer.  
[“Psilocybin producer” and “producer” are defined in 7.35.2. 7(P)(13) NMAC.] They argue that 
this perceived gap creates compliance uncertainty at the threshold of program participation. They 
further argue that operators cannot reliably assess their eligibility before investing in an 
application, and the Department lacks a clear regu latory basis for consistent eligibility 
determinations.  
 
 They further assert that a related ambiguity concerns dual licensure.  They assert that the 
Department’s proposed regulations do not address whether a cultivator currently licenses under 
New Mexico’s Cannabis Program may also hold a producer license under the Psilocybin Program.  
They argue that this silence is likely to create unnecessary barriers for a class of operators who 
among the best positioned to participate in the Psilocybi n Program —cannabis cultivators who 
already have the compliance infrastruct ure, existing relationships with state regulators, and 
demonstrated capacity to operate in Schedule 1 adjacent regulated environment.    
 
===== PAGE 17 =====
17 
 
4. Other equity and access issues 
 
The authors next addressed what they perceive to be a problem with 7.35.2.8(A)(9) NMAC, 
which requires applicants to provide “proof of ownership of the facility or written approval from 
the owner to cultivate psilocybin on the premises.” The authors assert  that while they understand 
the Department’s interest in ensuring that operators have secure, stable access to their cultivation 
sites, the written approval requirement as drafted creates significant practical barriers and 
unintended risks. 
 
They argue that landlords, even those who support tenants who are part of the Program, are 
unlikely to provide written approval to engage in conduct that remains illegal under federal law on 
their premises; such attestation would amount to written proof in  a legally binding document of 
aiding and abetting the manufacture of a Schedule 1 substance and would expose landlords to civil 
and criminal liability.  They also argue that the requirement creates an opening for exploitation—
a landlord who is familiar wi th the requirement could use that as leverage to extract unfair terms 
or higher rents from tenant seeking to operate in the Program.  
 
The authors suggest the following amendment: 
 
[An applicant for a producer or laboratory permit shall provide to the department 
and shall maintain the following records] . . . proof of ownership of a facility, a 
lease agreement that adequately protects the right of the program licensee to 
participate in the Medical Psilocybin Program, or written approval from the owner 
to participate in the Program. Such lease or approval may be contingent upon the 
permittee’s continued compliance with Program requirements.  
 
 The authors argue that their proposed amendment addresses the concerns that they have 
raised by replacing the written approval requirement with three alternatives that provide equivalent 
regulatory assurance without requiring landlords to attest to aiding  and abetting activity under 
federal law.  The applicant could satisfy the requirement by providing either proof of ownership, 
a lease agreement that adequately protects the applicant’s right to participate in the Program, or an 
attestation allowing for Pr ogram participation rather than requiring a landlord to attest that the 
permittee may cultivate psilocybin on the property regarding of Program participation.  
 
 The authors further argue that if one considers the situation where a permit is revoked, 
under the current language, a permittee could “pivot a landlord’s premises into illegal production 
relying on the same attestation the Program required to prevent eviction.” See page 15 of the Joint 
Public Comment in DOH Exhibit No. 9.  
 
 The authors argue that, under the amendment, where a landlord’s approval is still sought, 
the amendment narrows the scope of that approval to participation in a licensed DOH program, 
which reduces that landlord’s legal exposure and also preserves the Department’s ability to verify 
site access.  Further, they assert that the lease agreement pathway reflects established practice in 
industries that operate legally under state law, but remain subject to federal prosecution.  They 
assert that in those industries, it is standard for tenants and landlords to negotiate an anti-illegality 
waiver, in which a landlord voluntarily waives the right to void the lase to the basis of the tenant’s 
===== PAGE 18 =====
18 
 
legal state activities but federally prohibited activities. They argue that the waiver protects both 
parties by giving the operator regulatory certainty and lease security, while giving the landlord a 
negotiated, clear path to eviction if the lessee fails to comply with the state program which both 
parties rely on to reduce their liability. They suggest that the Department could publish a model 
lease clause to establish a baseline standard.   
 
5. Issues the proposed regulations create related to insurance coverage for care and 
professional liability insurance. 
 
In the last section of their public comment, the authors  address issues the proposed 
regulations create related to insurance coverage for care. See DOH Exhibit No. 9,  pages 15 - 16 
of the Joint Public Comment. The authors argue that the Department must address how to structure 
a care model that preserves insurance coverage for the services patients are already entitled to 
receive.  Thus, they argue that the Department must help to define a new insurance market.  They 
argue that how the components of the Pr ogram are described in the regulations will directly 
determine what arguments third party payors will use as grounds to deny coverage.  Where the 
regulations are ambiguous, they argue, insurers will exploit that ambiguity, and the resulting costs 
will fall on patients and providers. 
 
The authors assert that most Medicaid and third -party payer contracts contain provisions 
that prohibit coverage for services provided in connection with an “unapproved treatment 
modality.” Id. at 15. Thus, for Psychedelic Assisted Therapy, the unapproved treatment modality 
is the actual administration or self -administration of a Schedule 1 substance. This prohibition 
means that any service the regulations define as part of the administration of a Schedule 1 
substance will likely not be paid by any insurance  company, whether it be government or private 
insurance.  
 
The authors note that the proposed regulations refer to both the actual administration or 
self-administration of psilocybin and the other “usually covered” medical care that happens as the 
patient experiences the effects of psilocybin as the “administration session.” The authors argue that 
coverage planning becomes difficult, even impossible, when unapproved and normally covered 
components of care are combined in the language of the regulat ions.  They further argue that the 
testing, medication monitoring, m edical monitoring, crisis intervention, and behavioral health 
services that precede and follow administration are behavioral health services that Medicaid and 
third-party payors cover in virtually every other clinical context, and should be recoverable her e. 
However, the authors assert, the proposed regulations describe these services in ways that tie them 
to the administration of psilocybin, creating a basis for insurers to treat the entire continuum of 
care as part of an unapproved treatment modality, and  then declining coverage. They argue that 
the solution to this issue is to ensure that the regulatory definition describing preparation and 
integration services stand independently of the administration of psilocybin.  
 
The authors assert that there is a second risk arising out of the proposed regulations. That 
is, that New Mexico faces professional liability questions which have no precedent and no 
established insurance framework for a medically-integrated state psilocybin program. The authors 
state that these issues are made more urgent and complex by the fact that New Mexico’s Medical 
Malpractice Act was substantially amended during the 2026 legislative session—after the Medical 
===== PAGE 19 =====
19 
 
Psilocybin Act was adopted in 2025.  They assert that the regulations must now be read against a 
liability landscape that has shifted since the underlying statue was written. 
 
The authors note that the Program is dependent on clinician participation. The fewer 
clinicians who are willing to take the risk of participating, the less accessible the Program care will 
be. The risk implicates their clinical licensure, prescriber licensure, and long-term insurability.  The 
authors argue that by tying “administration” to the other care a clinician might provide, the 
regulations increase the risk of discipline, loss of license, or having their insurance dropped.  Thus, 
they argue that a clear separation between Schedule 1 administration and other care is required to 
protect the clinicians who will build this Program.  
 
The authors state that the problem is that where a regulation or statute describes the 
administration of a Schedule 1 substance as the provision of “medical services” that 
characterization risks bringing such activities within the scope of the Medical Malp ractice Act. 
The authors assert that this creates a serious coverage gap because medical malpractice insurance 
covers claims arising from the provision of medical services, but insurer underwriting those 
policies did not price and will not cover claims arising from the administration of a substance that 
is illegal to possess, manufacture, sell, or distribute under federal law. The authors argue that 
providers could find themselves subject to malpractice liability obligations for activities that their 
malpractice carrier will not cover—leaving them personally exposed in the event of a claim. 
 
The authors state that they recognize that some of the professional liability issues identified 
in the draft regulation arise out of the Medical Psilocybin Act itself. They suggest that full 
resolution of those issues may require statutory amendment. They note that the Ruddick Law 
Group is preparing a memo on medical malpractice liability under the MPA that will address 
legislative recommendations. They argue that addressing these issues proactively in the regulations 
will provide meaningful clarity for providers now and avoid the need to revise the regulations to 
conform with future statutory changes that are likely necessary.  
 
In order to address these issues, the authors have suggested amendments to the regulations 
that are addressed in detail on pages 17 - 19 of the Joint Public Comment in DOH Exhibit No. 9. 
They recommend striking the proposed 7.35.2.7(A)(2) NMAC, which states that “’administration 
session’ means the therapeutic session combined with the administration of psilocybin.” They then 
recommended replacing that definition with the following proposed regulations: 
 
• “Program” means the New Mexico Psilocybin Program established under the 
Medical Psilocybin Act. 
 
• “Program participant” means a patient who receives care authorized by the Program 
from Authorized Providers permitted to administer Program services at the time the 
patient receives care. 
 
• “Administration” means the act of a Program Participant ingesting psilocybin 
within a context authorized by the Program, exclusive of an Other Care provided 
before, during or after that ingestion. 
 
===== PAGE 20 =====
20 
 
• “Other care” means all therapeutic, clinical, preparatory, and integrative services 
provided to a Program Participant within the Program other than Administration, 
including patient assessment, informed consent, preparation sessions, presence and 
observation during a treatment session, and integration support following 
administration. 
 
The authors argue that by combining therapy with the administration of psilocybin in the 
draft regulation, the state invites Medicaid and other third -party payors to decline coverage for 
behavioral health care they would otherwise cover, creating affordabi lity and access barriers that 
harm the long-term viability of the Program. They argue that the amendments they propose reframe 
the program components in ways that protect the patient’s best chance at accessible care and 
protect clinicians from avoidable risk.  
 
The authors state that if the amendments they propose are adopted, the definition of 
“Guide” will also have to change.  They argue that the definition of “Guide” as proposed in 
7.35.2.7(G)(3) NMAC, invites allegations of the unauthorized practice of medicine. This would, 
they argue, further undermine a clinician who works with a Guide’s ability to maintain licensing 
and insurance while participating in the Program. They argue that if Guides are assisting in the 
provision of clinical care, there is a potential for attempts at tying medical malpractice liability to 
Guide services. 
 
As proposed in 7.35.2.7(G)(3) NMAC, a “Guide” is “an individual who has completed 
training and education approved by the department to be able to assist practitioners during the 
administration sessions and who has been registered with the department.”  
 
The authors suggest that the definition of “Guide” be amended to state the following: 
 
“Guide” means an individual who has complete Department-approved training and 
education and has been registered with the Department, and whose role is limited 
to providing non -clinical support and presence to a patient preparing for, 
experiencing the effects of, or integrating the effects of Administration, as allowed 
by the Program.  A Guide does not perform, and shall not be construed to perform, 
clinical assessment, diagnosis, treatment, or any other act constituting the practice 
of medicine, nursing, or any other licensed health profession. A Guide does not act 
under the supervision, direction, or authority of  any licensed health care provider, 
and no provider shall be deemed to have supervisory responsibility over a Guide 
solely by virtue of their concurrent participation in any part of the Program. 
 
 The authors assert that the core problem with the proposed definition of “Guide” by the 
Department  is that the phrase “assist practitioners during the “administration session” implies a 
subordinate, clinical relationship that could expose guides to malpractice liability for clinical acts 
they are not licenses to perform, or creating a supervisory relationship that makes the practitioner 
responsible for the guide’s conduct in ways neither party intends.   
 
 Finally, the authors address the definition of “Medical services” in the proposed 
regulations.  As proposed in 7.35.2.7(G)(2) NMAC, “’Medical services’ means services provided 
===== PAGE 21 =====
21 
 
to a patient in an approved setting before, during and after the ingestion of psilocybin and includes 
a preparation session, an administration session and an integration session.”  
 
 The authors propose to revise the draft rule as follows: 
 
“Medical services” means the clinical and therapeutic services provided to a patient 
by a licensed practitioner within the Program, including patient assessment, 
diagnosis, testing, medication management, behavioral health services, crisis health 
services, and the like. Medical Services does not include Administration, nor does 
it include the non-clinical support provided by a Guide. The provision of Medical 
Services by a practitioner during or proximate to the services provided by a Guide 
does not automatically create a supervisory relationship between that practitioner 
and any Guide.  
 
 The authors argue that the Department’s proposed rule has two problems. One, it collapses 
administration and other care into a single undifferentiated concept. And two, the phrase “medical 
services” implies a clinical character for all Program services, including Administration.  This, 
they argue, creates potential insurance, supervisory, malpractice, and other concerns which will 
likely reduce clinical participation in the Program.   
 
The Written Public Comment of John Starr on Behalf of Strong Medicine  
 
 John Starr submitted a written public comment on behalf of Strong Medicine. See DOH 
Exhibit No. 9.  He articulated concerns about the ability to justify investment with the proposed 
limitations. He asserted that the majority of those interested in psilocybin growing businesses are 
small businesses. He noted that it is well -documented that most small bus inesses fail due to lack 
of working capital. He argued that the proposed rules will limit encouraging investment to the 
extent that significant failures are likely.  He argued that this will restrict access to the product for 
medical purposes, and will set the stage for making the price of the medicine out of reach for many 
of the patients who need it most. 
 
 Mr. Starr asserted that the recent announcement of the federal government to reconsider 
the Schedule 1 drug list adds uncertainty in the investment world, pushing the pause button on any 
future investment plans.  He raises the question as to what safeguar ds prevent the Program from 
becoming too expensive for patients or too unprofitable for producers. 
 
 Mr. Starr stated that the Joint Public Comment that was submitted by Ms. Wilson and Ms. 
Cvitanovic echoes many of his concerns as to ownership and investment. He refers to a quote from 
that comment: “The rules should not be so broad that they discourage the capital that participants 
in the Program need.”  He hopes that in the spirit of equity, being a businessman is not seen as a 
bad thing.   
 
The Written Public Comment of the Psychedelic Bar Association 
 
 Jonathan Dennis, Esq., submitted a written public comment on behalf of the Psychedelic 
Bar Association (PBA) New Mexico Working Group. See DOH Exhibit No. 9.  Mr. Dennis stated 
===== PAGE 22 =====
22 
 
that the PBA is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit association of lawyers and legal professionals that is 
committed to the creation of a world where safe, legal access to psychedelics brings healing, equity, 
and justice for all. He stated that PBA’s comment focuses on the following areas: 
 
1. Principles of regulation, 
2. Intersections of Medical and Religious Use, 
3. Federal Tax Consequences, 
4. Anticipating and Reducing Negative Consequences of Profit Motives, and 
5. Restrictors for Property-renting Applicants. 
 
A summary of the foregoing issues follows: 
 
 Principles of Regulation 
 
 Mr. Dennis states that in the right setting, the psilocybin experience ranks among the top 
five most personally meaningful and spiritually significant experiences of a person’s life. He 
argues that it is paramount that the Medical Psilocybin Program be af fordable and accessible to 
everyone who could benefit.  He states that failure to achieve that goal will deprive low- and 
middle-income communities from astonishing health and life outcomes.  
 
 Mr. Dennis stated that the key considerations for a regulatory framework that is designed 
to be affordable and equitable include the following: 
 
• The safeguards must be proportionate to safety concerns. He argued that if safety 
requirements are higher than necessary, costs will be raised to the detriment of low- and 
middle-income communities. He proposes that screening questionnaires that identify 
potential contraindications can inexpensively resolve safety concerns.  For example, 
Guide’s supervision does not need to be by person with advanced credentialing. 
 
• Rulemaking should be governed by informed consent principles. Mr. Dennis argues that 
potential harms of most psychedelics are lower than , but different from , alcohol and 
nicotine, “which we trust adults to use responsibly without excessive paternalism.” See 
PBA’s written comment at page 2 in DOH Exhibit No. 9. 
 
• Rulemaking should embrace or allow psychedelic use in a community -based paradigm, 
making liberal use or peer support in preparation, administration, and integration services. 
He argues that this will promote affordability, cultural sensitivity, and inclusivity.  
 
• Over-regulation of psychedelic substances should be avoided. He states that Oregon 
provides a cautionary tale —a gram of one brand of regulated mushroom sells for $40 to 
$50, whereas a similar unregulated brand sells for $8/gram. He asserts that the costs i n 
Colorado are also high. He argues that the harms sought to be avoided by the proposed 
draft rule 7.35.2.19 NMAC (Required Testing of Psilocybin Products) have not 
materialized in Oregon or Colorado.  
 
===== PAGE 23 =====
23 
 
Mr. Dennis argues that psychedelics are not conventional Western medicine and do not fit 
easily into Western models of praxis. He argues that current attempts to induce mystical 
experiences in a doctor’s or therapist’s office using psychedelics are absurd, and should be left to 
religious and indigenous communities.   
 
Intersections of Medical and Religious Use 
 
 He argues that one of the most critical questions facing the rule makers is what attitude the 
proposed rules will express toward religious use cases.  He argues that New Mexico should not 
disregard religious adherent’s claim to legal access. He states that New Mexico adopted broad 
religious freedoms that allow religious practitioners to use psilocybin and other psychedelics in 
the practice of sincere rel igious exercise, citing NMSA 1978, §28 -22-3, et seq. He argues that 
regardless of the religious freedom that the State has intentionally enacted, the passage of the MPA 
has created a system for granting individual exceptions to the NM Controlled Substances Act. He 
argues further that when a state adopts a system for granting individualized exemptions to any law, 
the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires that exemptions to that law also be granted 
for religious practitioners. He argues that this means that a state cannot authorize legal access to a 
drug for medical reason without also authorizing legal access to that drug for religious reasons.  
 
 Mr. Dennis argues that the issue was recently litigated in Jensen v. Utah County, U.S. Dist. 
Court for the District of Utah, Case No. 2:24-cv-00887-JNP. He asserts that the judge ruled in that 
case that the  Utah Controlled Substances Act was not generally applicable with respect to 
psilocybin  and found that the First Amendment protect s religious activities involving psilocybin 
in Utah. 
 
 Mr. Dennis states that while the PBA does not have particular recommendations with 
respect to this round of proposed rules, they urge the DOH to be proactive in not undermining 
religious practitioners in its policies and regulations.  
 
 Sale Restrictions and Federal Tax Consequences 
 
 Mr. Dennis states that service providers in Oregon and Colorado’s psilocybin programs 
have encountered a significant federal tax problem arising from Section 280(E) of the Internal 
Revenue Code. Section 280(E) prohibits any business engaged in the traffick ing of a Schedule 1 
controlled substance from deducting  ordinary business expenses on their federal taxes. 
Consequently, businesses with any direct involvement in handling or transferring psilocybin must 
pay federal income tax on gross revenue rather than  net income, significantly increasing their 
effective tax burden. 
 
 Mr. Dennis asserts that Oregon and Colorado both operate supervised -use models similar 
to the model New Mexico is building. In those programs, he states, psilocybin is not sold directly 
to program participants through dispensaries; it is transferred to service centers that administer it 
to participants under supervision. He states that this transfer from producer to service center 
triggers Section 280(E) exposure for the service center. He states that operators in both states have 
attempted to minimize this tax exposure by creating separate legal entities to isolate plant-handling 
activities from their other business operations so that Section 280(E) liability does not contaminate 
===== PAGE 24 =====
24 
 
the tax treatment of the entire enterprise. He notes that this approach has not been evaluated by the 
courts, and it is uncertain whether it would survive judicial scrutiny.  He also asserts that it is a 
costly and administratively burdensome strategy that  disadvantages smaller operators and adds 
overhead to a highly-regulated industry.  
 
 Mr. Dennis argues that, as drafted, the proposed regulations replicate the same sale 
structure that has created these tax problems elsewhere, and they do not take advantage of the 
opportunity to build in structural flexibility before the problem materiali zes. He argues that 
allowing direct sales from producers to patients at an approved location and while un der the 
supervision of a guide would dramatically reduce the impact of Section 280(E) while avoiding 
diversion and related concerns.   
 
 He proposes the following amendments to 7.35.2.10(B)(7) NMAC (“General Producer 
Requirements”), as indicated by underscoring: 
 
A producer shall . . . only sell psilocybin or psilocybin products to other producers 
and to practitioners, or to program participants through the supervised sale and 
consumption provisions of these regulations ; and only otherwise distribute 
psilocybin or psilocybin products to medical psilocybin testing laboratories, or to 
department employees for testing in accordance with this rule.  
 
Supervised Sale and Consumption: Direct sale of psilocybin to program 
participants is permitted only at an approved location on the day of the participant’s 
administration session. Consumption of psilocybin sold directly to a program 
participant is permitted only in the presence of a licensed clinician or guide at an 
approved location on the day of sale, and only for the amounts that are to be 
consumed by the participant in that administration session.  
 
 Mr. Dennis states that the foregoing proposed amendments introduce a direct participation 
sale option as an alternative pathway alongside the producer -to-practitioner model. This would 
allow the direct sale of psilocybin to a program participant so long as the sale occurs at an approved 
location on the day of administration and consumption takes place in the presence of a licensed 
clinician or guide.   
 
 He argues that the tax consequence of this proposal is significant. He argues that when the 
sale runs directly from producer to patient, the service center is not a party and therefor not engaged 
in trafficking under Section 280(E). He argues that this would allow the service centers to deduct 
ordinary operating expenses and reduce the tax penalty that would otherwise fall on them.  
 
 He states that the proposed amendment would not require t he use the direct sale model; it 
creates an option to do that.  
 
Anticipating and Reducing Negative Consequences of Profit Motives in the State Program 
 
 Mr. Dennis advocates for a goal of designing a regulatory framework that supports good -
faith actors and limits the ability of bad -faith actors to cause harm by being primarily motivated 
===== PAGE 25 =====
25 
 
by profit, or seeking to exploit regulatory gaps for financial gain.  He argues that the proposed 
regulations fall short of that goal by being broad enough to burden legitimate arrangements, 
including friends and family investment, minority ownership stakes and other financing structures 
that small operators depend upon, while leaving more sophisticated disguised control mechanisms 
that present the greatest patient risk inadequately addressed.  
 
 Mr. Dennis addresses 7.35.2.9(B) NMAC (“General Permittee Requirements —Dual 
ownership prohibited”) which prohibits a person from holding an ownership interest in a permittee 
from having an ownership interest in any other permittee . He appears to support that provision. 
However, when additional regulations are adopted, he hopes the DOH will not prohibit producers 
from functioning as a guide or serving other roles within the Program. 
 
 He then turns to draft rule 7.35.2.26(C)(m) NMAC (“Disciplinary Actions and Appeal 
Process—Grounds for disciplinary action”), which provides as follows: 
 
Disciplinary action may be taken against a permittee or a permit -applicant   . . . 
[and] may consist of revocation, or suspension in whole or in part, of a permit, 
denial of an application for a permit, and other actions. Disciplinary action may be 
imposed based on . . . a finding by the department that any person holds an 
ownership interest in a permit or permittee that is nominal or without the benefits 
and risks of genuine ownership. 
 
 
Mr. Dennis also cites the definition of “genuine ownership,” found in 7.35.2.7(G)(1) 
NMAC, which states as follows: 
 
“Genuine ownership” means ownership interest in an applicant or permittee that is 
evidenced by record ownership in which the owner, regardless of the amount of 
capital or assets that the owner contributes to the applicant or permittee, enjoys the 
customary incidents of ownership and shares in the profits and losses of the 
permittee proportionate to the percentage of the owner’s interest in the permit. 
 
 He argues that these regulations create an unclear standard that would appear to penalize 
permittees who have passive investors who do not have authority for decision-making. He argues 
that would be problematic given the available pool of funding that is available to federally illegal 
businesses. 
 
 Mr. Dennis proposes that the solution to this issue is to clarify that passive investments are 
allowed within the program. He argues that requiring all investors to have decision making 
authority can result in “mission drift” and undermine the medical goals of the Program; b usiness 
decisions should be made by those who are actively involved in the provision of care.  
 
 Restrictors for Property-Renting Applicants 
 
 The PBA supports the comment submitted by Healing Advocacy Fund and the Rudick Law 
Group regarding the requirements for property -renter cultivators in 7.35.2.8(A)(9) NMAC 
===== PAGE 26 =====
26 
 
(“Permit Application Requirements”). Mr. Dennis states that the PBA supports the proposed 
amendment to add a lease agreement, with anti -liability waiver.  They also support revising the 
scope of the written approval option to require only attestation of pe rmission to participate in a 
licensed Department program, rather than permission to cultivate psilocybin on the premises. He 
argues these changes would reduce the legal exposure to landlords.    
 
The Written Public Comment of Gregory Evans 
 
 Mr. Evans is an Independent Researcher and Contributing Member of the MPAB 
Propagation Committee. He submitted written public comments on the proposed rule.  See the 
written public comments of Mr. Evans, which include a Document Package Summary, a Public 
Comment, and Addendums A, B, and C, in DOH Exhibit No. 9.  While Mr. Evans’ comments are 
extensive, they are also quite focused and succinct as to each subsection of the rules which he 
addresses. Thus, they are addressed in the summary of the Department’s written response to the 
public’s written comments, which follows this section of this report.  
 
The Written Response of the Department to the Written Public Comments 
 
 The Department responded to the written public comments in a letter dated May 13, 2026, 
from Mr. Woodward.  See DOH Exhibit No. 10.  
 
The Department responded to the written public comments of James Brown as follows: 
 
 The Department responded to Mr. Brown’s comments on recall classifications.  Mr. Brown 
proposed that the Department incorporate various additional text in the rule to require three classes 
of recalls ranging from Class 1 to Class 3.  The Department stated its belief that the proposed text 
at 7.35.2.10(A)(8 ) NMAC and 7.35.2.19(M)(1) - (5) NMAC is sufficient and provides clear, 
simple instructions on the recall procedure, as well as the destruction of any psilocybin lot that 
poses a health hazard or that fai ls a visual inspection or laboratory text.  The Department is also 
concerned that Mr. Brown’s proposed text would unnecessarily complicate the recall process.  
 
 The Department also responded to Mr. Brown’s recommendation to adopt definitions for 
various terms and utilize them in the rule. The Department stated that the Dosage, Administration 
& Clinical Practice Committee and the Training & Education Committee of the Medical Psilocybin 
Advisory Board are currently working together to make recommendations concer ning licensures 
and the qualifications, competencies, scope of practice, and roles for each. The Department states 
that it anticipates addressing these matters in future rulemaking.   
 
 The Department responded to Mr. Brown’s recommendation that the prohibition against 
dual ownership by a permittee be modified to all a person holding either a producer or laboratory 
permit to hold an interest in another permittee, so long as there was a clear separation between the 
operations of each permittee.  The Department stated that it believes that allowing persons who 
have ownership interests in a permittee to hold ownership interest in other permittees can raise 
various conflicts of interest that would be detrimental to patients in the Program; one of the biggest 
conflicts is the potential for market monopoly. Another arises in the case of dual ownership in a 
producer and a laboratory which could incentivize the skewing or falsifying of test results.   
===== PAGE 27 =====
27 
 
  
 The Department also responded to the written public comment of Denali Wilson and 
Victoria Cvitanovic, the authors of a comment submitted on behalf of the Healing Advocacy Fund 
and the Rudick Law Group (the Hearing Officer refers to them as “the authors” in this report.) See 
DOH Exhibit No. 10.  The Department first addresses the authors’ comments regarding gaps in 
protections against predatory financing and disguised control.  The Department responded to the 
authors' proposed amendments to limit the potential for predatory financing and strawman -type 
arrangements within the Program, which included the proposed edits to the definition of “actual 
control” and the proposed deletion of “genuine ownership.” The Department states that in 
consideration of this comment, it proposed a revised definition o f “actual control” in its List of 
Anticipated Revisions.   
 
 The Department notes that transfer of actual control would be prohibited under the 
proposed 7.35.2.9(D) NMAC. In the proposed, revised definition of “actual control,” whether 
someone has “actual control” over a permittee depends on whether they can dictat e the policies 
and priorities of the permittee —not whether they can “exert authority” over the permittee. The 
Department asserts that the revised text would enable someone who has an ownership interest in a 
permittee to vote their shares, exerting an influence on the business without having absolute control 
over it.  The Department further asserts that the revised text is consistent with 7.35.2.9(E) NMAC, 
which effectively requires that persons who hold an ownership interest in a permittee be able to 
exert authority over the permittee as one of the “customary incidents of ownership.”  
 
 The Department states that it believes the revised text of the rule is relatively 
straightforward and adequately addresses the subject of ownership interests in a permittee. It 
further asserts that the text proposed by the authors, which included lengthy revisions to the 
definition of “actual control” and multiple passages regarding “true parties in interest” would be 
overly complicated and not add significant value.  
 
 The Department also commented on the authors’ comments regarding clarity regarding rule 
into investment into permitted businesses.  The Department notes that the author’s comment 
included various proposed edits to 7.35.2.2 NMAC, “General Permittee Require ments.” The 
Department argues that these proposed edits would overly complicate the rule, again, without 
significant value. The Department argued that 7.35.2.9(B) NMAC prohibits a person who holds 
an ownership interest in a permittee from holding an ownership interest in another permittee. The 
Department believes that this is necessary to prevent conflicts of interest and negative impacts on 
the Program that can result.  The Department states that the authors’ comment would permit dual 
ownership so long as the person does not qualify as a “true party in interest” with respect to the 
second permittee.  The Department argues that prohibiting dual ownership is a more robust, 
practical approach t o limiting predatory financing and disguised control of the premises.  The 
Department argues that prohibiting dual ownership and requiring record ownership provide bright-
line standards that are simpler for the Department to enforce and easier for regulate d entities to 
follow. The Department also asserts that shifting to an entirely control -based approach would be 
difficult to implement; it would be difficult to distinguish between persons who are simply passive 
investors and person who exert control over a permittee through backroom decision-making.  
 
===== PAGE 28 =====
28 
 
 The Department also responds to the authors’ comments on issues the proposed regulations 
created related to insurance coverage for care.  The Department notes that the authors 
recommended that the definition of “administration session” be deleted and that certain additional  
Definitions be included in the rule. The Department states that in consideration of this comment, 
it proposed a revised definition of “administration session” in its List of Anticipated Revisions.”    
 
 The proposed revised rule 7.35.2.7(A)(2) is as follows: 
 
“Administration session” means the [therapeutic session combined with 
the administration of] session in which psilocybin is administered. 
 
The Department argues that the revised, proposed rule more clearly delineates between 
administration sessions that involve the administration of psilocybin and therapy session that do 
not involve the administration of psilocybin.   
 
 The Department responds to the authors’ extensive proposed revisions to the definition of 
“guide.” It does not agree that the definition of "guide” exposes guides to malpractice liability; the 
current definition does not describe guides as playing a clinical role.  
 
 Finally, the Department responds to the authors’ comment’s proposal that the Department 
replace the written landlord approval requirement with either written approval or a lease agreement 
that “adequately protects the right of the program licensee to participate in the Medical Psilocybin 
Program.” The Department asserts that it is important for permit applicants and permittees to 
provide an attestation from a landlord acknowledging that they understand how the premises will 
be used.  As noted in the discus sion of the Department’s List of Anticipated Revisions, however, 
the Department proposed to remove the reference to “approval” in 7.35.2.8(A) NMAC, and modify 
the text as stated above. 
  
 The Department also submitted a written response to the written public comment of John 
Starr. See DOH Exhibit No. 10 at pages 6 -7.  The Department notes that Mr. Starr stated that rules 
should be written in a manner to favor small business, and expressed concern that the proposed 
rule does not encourage investment and could restrict access to medical  psilocybin by making it 
too expensive. The Department stated in response that it believes the proposed rule strikes an 
appropriate balance between ensuring t he safety of psilocybin products and avoiding the 
imposition of unnecessary expenses and restraints.  
 
 The Department also submitted a written response to the written public comment of 
Jonathan Dennis on behalf of the Psychedelic Bar Association. See DOH Exhibit No. 10 at pages 
5 - 6.  First, the Department address Mr. Dennis’s comments on the intersection of medical and 
religious use. The Department echoes Mr. Dennis’s comment that the Medical Psilocybin Act 
makes no reference to religious use, and states that the DOH is not authorized in the MPA to enroll 
individuals in the Program for religious use of psilocybin. Thus, the Department states that it is not 
within the legal role of the Department to enroll persons for the religious use of psilocybin.   
 
 The Department then comments on Mr. Dennis’s comments regarding sale restrictions and 
federal tax consequences.  The Department took issue with Mr. Dennis’s recommendation to allow 
===== PAGE 29 =====
29 
 
direct sales from producers to patients in order to reduce the impact of Section 280(E) from the 
IRS Code. The Department asserts that allowing direct sales from producers to patients would 
encourage self -dosing and recreational use.  The Department is com mitted to ensuring that 
producers of psilocybin products only distribute those products to clinicians, and ensuring that the 
administration of psilocybin only occurs in supervised clinical settings.  The Department notes that 
medical psilocybin presents un ique health risks and in that way is very different from medical 
cannabis. Further, the MPA at NMSA 1978 §§ 26-2D-1 through 11, emphasizes the involvement 
of clinicians and the ingestion of psilocybin only in supervised administration sessions as part of 
an integrated therapeutic practice.  The Department asserts that its approach in the proposed new 
rule is consistent with that legislative intent.  
 
 The Department then addresses Mr. Dennis’s comments regarding anticipating and 
reducing negative consequences of profit motives.  The Department notes that Mr. Dennis 
highlighted the proposed requirement that permittee investors “enjoy the customary incid ents of 
ownership,” and recommended that the rule clarify that passive investments are allowed within the 
program. The Department states in response that it believes that the proposed text of the rule, as 
revised in the response to public comments and as s et for in the List of Anticipated Revisions 
(DOH Exhibit No. 8) is appropriate.  The Department asserts that requiring that investors enjoy 
the customary incidents of ownership proportionate to their percentage of ownership is not unduly 
burdensome and will help to ensure that permittees do not enter straw -man type arrangements in 
which actual control of a permittee is vested in persons other than those who hold record ownership 
of the company.  
 
 Finally, the Department responds to Mr. Dennis’s comments regarding restrictors for 
property-renting applicants. The Department states that Mr. Dennis proposed that the rule not 
require that a permit applicant submit an attestation form from a landlord ac knowledging that the 
property will be used for the purpose of cultivating psilocybin. Mr. Dennis raised concern that such 
an attestation could expose a landlord to civil and criminal liability, thereby making landlords 
reluctant to provide such an attestat ion.  Mr. Dennis proposed a “lease agreement pathway,” and 
the scope of any written approval should be limited to only requiring permission to participate in 
a DOH-licensed program.  
 
 The Department responds by stating that it is important for permit applicants and permittees 
to provide an attestation from a landlord acknowledging that they understand how the premises 
will be used, given the state of federal law and the potential for n egative legal repercussions for 
landlords (such as property seizures), including those landlords may not be aware of such activities 
occurring on the premises.  The Department notes that in response to such comments, it proposes 
to modify the text of subse ction 7.35.2.8(A) NMAC as set forth in the List of Anticipated 
Revisions. See DOH Exhibit No. 8.   
 
In its written response to written public comments, the Department also commented on the 
written public comments of Gregory Evans. See DOH Exhibit No. 10 at pages 1 - 4, as follows: 
 
The Department agrees that a definition of “certificate of analysis” should be added to 
7.35.2.7 NMAC but it prefers the following text: “ ‘Certificate of analysis or COA’ means a 
===== PAGE 30 =====
30 
 
document issued by a permitted psilocybin testing laboratory that reports the results of all analyses 
required by the department or additional testing requested by a producer or manufacturer.” 
 
The Department agrees with Mr. Evan’s recommendation that a maximum water content  
of 10% be added to 7.35.3.19(F) NMAC.  
 
The Department agrees with Mr. Evan’s recommendation to add the term “cultivation 
batch” to 7.35.2.10(A)(6) NMAC.  
 
The Department states that the requested phrase “harvest lot” was added to 7.35.2.15(A)(1) 
NMAC prior to the rule hearing. [The phrase “harvest lots” does appear in 7.35.2.15(A) NMAC, 
but not in subsection (A)(1), where Mr. Evans proposes it should be added.]  
 
The Department does not agree to Mr. Evans recommendation that the definition of 
“inoculate” in 7.35.2.7(I)(2) NMAC is biologically inaccurate because spores do not contain 
psilocybin and the definition refers to “psilocybin spores.” The Department states that it 
understands that spores do not contain psilocybin.  The Department explains that “psilocybin 
spores” in the definition refers to spores that produce a mushroom containing psilocybin.  The 
Department states that adding to the definition of “inoculate” would be beneficial. 
 
Mr. Evans asserts that the bundled compound in the definition of “psilocybin” in 
7.35.2.7(P)(10) NMAC creates regulatory ambiguity. The Department responds by stating that the 
definition in the proposed rule is identical to the statutory definition of “psi locybin” in NMSA 
1978, § 26-2D-3(G), and, thus, should not be altered. 
 
Mr. Evans asserts that the definitions of “cultivation” and “manufacture” in 7.35.2.7(C)(7) 
and (M)(1) NMAC have overlapping scope and create conflicting obligations, as well as 
preventing the assignment of unique identification numbers for each stage.  The Department asserts 
that the language of the proposed text is clear and does not lead to conflicting obligations, nor 
prevent the assignment of unique identification numbers for each stage. 
 
Mr. Evans states that the level of analytes in the definition of “potency” in 7.35.2.7(P)(6) 
NMAC is unspecified and two labs testing the same sample could report different analyte panels. 
The Department responds by stating that potency testing and required analytes are specified in the 
rule at 7.35.2.19(G) NMAC and the rule sets the reporting measurements in milligrams/gm, which 
is a metric unit. 
 
Mr. Evans recommends removing the species constraint in the definition of “mycelium” in 
7.35.2.7(M)(3) NMAC so that the rule can reference “mycelium” accurately in any context.  The 
Department asserts that the definition is sufficiently accurate for the Pr ogram’s purposes; if a 
cultivation batch is contaminated with Trichoderma, aspergillus, or other fungal contaminants that 
have mycelium, the Department may reference the species by name.  
 
Mr. Evans asserts that the definition of “fruiting bodies” in 7.35.2.7(F)(3) NMAC is 
scientifically inaccurate and also reduces the fruiting body to a single function, rather than the 
material harvested, dried, tested, and administered under this rule. The Department states that the 
===== PAGE 31 =====
31 
 
definition is sufficiently accurate for the Program’s purposes, and that adding the words “including 
associated structures” might be technically more specific, but would not add clarity or needed 
meaning to the definition. 
 
Mr. Evans asserts that 7.35.2.15(A) NMCA requires producers to track cultivation batches, 
harvest lots, homogenized lots, product lots, and psilocybin product inventory. He further states 
that 7.35.2.15(A)(1) NMAC assigns UIDs to cultivation batches, homog enized lots, and product 
lots, and the definitions do not connect the states to one another; as he puts it—the chain is broken. 
Mr. Evans asserts that his proposed, amended definitions of “cultivation,” “harvest lot,” 
“homogenized lot,” and “product lot” c hain each stage to its parent, constrain genetic origin, 
require homogenization, specify product, and resolve a Subsections 7.35.2.10(A)(6) and 15(A)(1) 
UID inconsistency at the definitional level.  
 
The Department responds to the foregoing concerns by stating that in order to accurately 
track growing, harvesting, and producing the psilocybin -containing mushrooms for use, growth 
stages needed to be defined in the rule to allow for tracking and to preve nt diversion. The 
Department states that the definitions are accurate, and can be followed by producers without 
confusion.  
 
Mr. Evans asserts that 7.35.2.7(C)(8) NMAC, the definition of “cultivation batch” allows 
for mixed genetic origin.  He further asserts that homogenization is not required because 
7.35.7.2(H)(5) NMAC, the definition of “homogenized lot,” does not refer to 7 .35.7.2(H)(4), the 
definition of “homogenized.” In addition, he argues that the phrase “same type of product” in the 
definition of “product lot” in 7.35.2.7(P)(8) NMAC is undefined, making the definition of “product 
lot” underspecified.   
 
The Department responds by stating that the language of the foregoing regulations was 
intentional to allow producers to grow multiple species of psilocybin -containing mushrooms that 
may vary in psilocybin content. The Department further notes that testing of the finished product 
will determine the important parameter of the amount of psilocybin contained in the product. The 
Department also believes that adding the term “powder” to the definition of “homogenized  lot,” 
when the definition of "homogenized” requires “powdering” would be redundant and unnecessary. 
 
Mr. Evans further states that the UID lists are inconsistent because 7.35.2.10(A)(6) NMAC 
lists harvest lots, homogenized lots, and product lots, and 7.35.2.15(A)(1) NMAC lists cultivation 
batch, homogenized lots, and product lots.   The Department agrees that “cultivation batch” should 
be added to Subsection 7.35.2.10(A)(6).  
 
 Mr. Evans states that 7.35.2.7(H)(5) NMAC has a “dead clause” because it includes the 
phrase “harvested within a specified time period” and has no value assigned. The Department is 
satisfied  with the current definition, and believes that Mr. Evans’ propo sed longer and more 
complex definition would not reduce confusion or add meaningful information.  The Department 
asserts that the lack of a time value was intentional, to allow for the producer to self-determine the 
time period, based on business practice and different growth time for different type of psilocybin-
containing mushrooms.   
 
===== PAGE 32 =====
32 
 
  Mr. Evans asserts that the phrase “may include” (referring to cultivation batches, harvest 
lots, homogenized lots, product lots, and testing samples) in the definition of “UID” at 7.35.2.7(U) 
NMAC makes UID coverage permissive, and a producer cannot tell  whether UID assignment at 
any given stage is required or optional. The Department responds that the words “may include” do 
not grant permission to ignore assigning a UID to each stage as defined.  
 
 Mr. Evans recommends that a definition of the word “spawn” (which appears in his 
recommended amendment to the definition of “inoculate”), be added to the rule. He asserts that 
this addition anchors the definition of “inoculate” and supports 7.35.2.12(C) NMAC and 7.35.2.15 
NMAC traceability, and aligns with the batch definition’s origin constraint. The Department states 
that adding a definition for the word “spawn” would not add meaningful content to the rule, and 
notes that spawn arise from germinating spores and are not a separate biological entity.  
 
 Mr. Evans argues that rule 7.35.2.14(A)(4)(j) NMAC requires and expiration date on every 
label, and rule 7.35.2.7(E) NMAC defines expiration date b ut the rule never defines how a 
producer determines that date. He argues that there is no shelf -life definition; no stability testing 
requirement; and no methodology.  He argues that addressing these issues would anchor shelf life 
to homogenization, labeled potency, and producer-specific storage conditions. He further asserts 
that a twelve-month ceiling on the product reflects the board’s adopted framework.  
 
 The Department responds that it was not defined a shelf life or expiration date for 
psilocybin product because there is little scientific information regarding the stability of 
homogenized powdered psilocybin mushrooms. The Department further asserts that a single study 
was identified by the Department, entitled “Stability of psilocybin and its four analogs in the 
biomass of the psychotropic mushroom psilocybe  cubensis,” by Gotvaldova, Hajkova, et al. The 
Department states that this study found some degra dation of psilocybin beginning at one month 
even under the best storage conditions, and a more pronounced drop between two and 15 months. 
In addition, the Department refers to a study from Rose City Labs, which found conversion of 
psilocybin with a small decrease in potency after three months of storage.  
 
 The Department asserts that, because of the lack of substantial data on stability for stored 
powdered psilocybin, the Department opted in favor of requiring re -testing every six months, to 
balance safety, potential decreasing potency requiring change in dosing amount, and testing costs. 
It notes that as it gains experience with the results of testing, the rules allow for changing testing 
frequency. 
 
 Mr. Evans identified eight definitions in 7.35.2.7 NMAC in which the operative scope falls 
outside the proposed regulations. See Mr. Evans’ Items 13 through 20 on page 6 of his Public 
Comment on Proposed Rule 7.35.2 NMAC in DOH Exhibit No. 9. He argues that these terms 
should be finalized in the appropriate committee’s rulemaking process, not in this 7.35.2 NMAC 
rulemaking process.   
 
 The Department responds that it has proposed adopting certain definitions in the rule that 
are particular to psilocybin patients and practitioners, and notes that some of those terms are not 
used at all outside the definitions. The Department states that it has proposed these definitions in 
anticipation  that the definitions used in this rule will be incorporated in their entirety by reference 
===== PAGE 33 =====
33 
 
in future rules concerning patients and practitioners. It notes that if those definitions are determined 
to require revisions in the future, they can be amended at that time.  
 
 Mr. Evans proposes a new provision that focuses on water activity. He argues that 
7.35.2.19(E) NMAC requires testing of organisms on finished product but does not regulate the 
moisture condition enabling growth. He argues that below 0.6 aw no pathogen, ye ast, or mold 
relevant to this matrix can grow. He further states that Subsection 7.35.2.19(F) measures total 
moisture, and water activity measures the fraction available to biology. He argues both are needed. 
 
 The Department responds by stating that it believes that adding a subsection related to 
water activity would be redundant and unnecessary because a water content of 10% is generally 
analogous to a water activity of the  proposed 0.6 aw.  The Department further states that although 
a water activity measurement of 0.6 aw or less could in theory inhibit the growth of bacterial/yeast 
and mold in the finished product, this alone would not guarantee that the product is not 
contaminated. In addition, the Department notes that this is part of the reason why the Department 
has proposed to require additional testing for contaminants.  
 
 Mr. Evans also proposes to reduce the microbes listed for testing in Table 1 of 7.35.2.19(E) 
NMAC (“Microbial testing”) to four specified microbes, rather than the nine microbes listed by 
the Department in the proposed rule. The Department responds by sta ting that it believes that 
testing for each of the required microbial species is reasonable and appropriate. The Department 
states that the medical conditions that qualify a patient for enrollment in the Program often come 
with co -morbidities, (including i mmunosuppression,) which require pathogen -free mushroom 
products.  The Department notes that each required species to be tested can cause serious illness 
or death in patients who are immunocompromised or seriously ill.   
 
 In addition, the Department states that the testing panel was created after consultation with 
the American Herbal Products Association, the USDA, the National Advisory Committee on 
Microbial Criteria in Foods, review of the Oregon and Colorado Psilocybin program requirements, 
and discussion with psilocybin testing labs in Colorado, Oregon, and Florida.   
 
 The Department states that it also is concerned that the Program may attract novice 
producer entrants with varying skill levels; it finds that more thorough testing at the start will better 
ensure the safety of patients.  It states that with more experien ce with testing results, the 
Department may adjust the testing frequency requirements through rulemaking.  
 
 Mr. Evans argues that a retest cadence appears in four subsections of the produced rule, 
each restating the same interval independently. He argues that a single policy change requires four 
amendments.  The Department responds that it believes that referencing the re-test cadence in four 
passages of Section 7.35.3.19 in not problematic, and it serves a useful purpose, as each reference 
relates to the testing of different analyses.  
 
 Mr. Evans asserts that Subsection 7.35.2.19(B)(1) caps samples at 1 - 5 grams for every 1 
kilogram and defers to lab sampling protocols in the same sentence. He argues that a validated 
method requiring more than 5 grams has “nowhere to land.” The Department argues that, having 
consulted with laboratories in Colorado and Oregon, it believes that a sample size of 1 - 5 grams 
===== PAGE 34 =====
34 
 
will be sufficient for all testing, and give producers notice of the amount of product that they can 
expect to lose in the course of testing; the Department asserts that these amount should be in line 
with laboratory standard operating procedures.  
 
 Mr. Evans states that Section 7.35.2.11 authorizes capsules, sachets, and homogenized 
dried powder, but no provision authorizes solvent -based extraction or concentration.  He 
recommends striking solvent references from Subsections 10(A)(2), 13, 20(B), and 21(A). He 
would replace the with cleaning-agent language where applicable.  He states that if the Department 
later authorizes  extracted product forms, solvent  controls would attach to that authorization. 
 
 Mr. Evans asserts that Subsection 7.35.2.14(A)(4)(h) requires two calculated values for 
potency calculation but the rule omits conversion factor, analyte inputs, and calculation formula. 
He asserts that two laboratories testing identical sample could report different label values. He 
states that potency calculation is a technical standard that belongs in a standard operating approval 
process, where it can be validated, standardized and updated without a rule amendment. He asserts 
that every permitted lab uses the same formula. 
 
 The Department responds that it believes that it is unnecessary to include conversion 
factors, analyte inputs, and calculation formulas in the rule, because these parameters have been 
standardized via accepted standardized operating procedures for testing laboratories.  
 
The Department’s List of Anticipated Revisions to 7.35.2 NMAC 
 
 The Department generated its written List of Anticipated Revisions to 7.35.2 NMAC prior 
to the hearing on April 24, 2026. See DOH Exhibit No. 8. The DOH proposed the revisions to the 
proposed rule (DOH Exhibit No. 2 ) at the time of hearing  in the comments of Dominick Zurlo.  
The proposed amendments include a revision to the definition of “actual control,” at 7.35.2.7(A)(1) 
NMAC, as follows: 
 
(1) “Actual control” means the ability to: 
(a) [direct] control the policies, management, [ and] or personnel of a 
permittee; 
(b) [exert authority over] control strategic priorities, capital allocations, 
acquisitions, and divestments of a permittee; or 
(c) control a majority of voting rights of a permittee. 
 
The Department states that the foregoing revisions are designed to ensure that persons who 
assume an ownership interest in a permittee, including investors, can exert authority over the 
permittee’s business, while still preventing a transfer of majority co ntrol to any one person.  By 
removing the “exert authority” test and replacing it with the word “control” the rule would allow 
a person who purchases an ownership interest in a permittee to vote their shares.  The revision was 
also intended to ensure that the definition of “actual control” does not conflict with the “genuine 
ownership” requirements of 7.35.2.9(B) NMAC, which, the Department states, effectively require 
that persons who hold an ownership interest in a permittee be able to exert authority over the 
permittee as one of the “customary incidents of ownership.”   
 
===== PAGE 35 =====
35 
 
The Department’s proposed revisions to the rule include a revised definition of 
“administration session” in 7.35.2.7(A)(2) as follows: 
 
(2) “Administration session” means the [therapeutic session combined with 
the administration of] session in which psilocybin is administered. 
 
The Department states that this revision of the definition is proposed to narrow th e 
definition of “administration session” to more clearly delineate between administration sessions 
that involve the actual administration of psilocybin, and therapy sessions that do not involve 
psilocybin administration.  
 
 The Department proposes to revise the following definition to correct a mistaken word 
choice:7.35.3.7(I)(2) NMAC:  “Inoculate” means the process of introducing psilocybin spores [of] 
or mycelium into growth medium. 
 
 The Department proposes to  revise the application submittal requirements concerning 
rental properties in 7.35.2.8(A) NMAC as follows: 
 
General requirements: An applicant for a producer or laboratory permit shall 
provide to the department and shall maintain the following records: **** 
(9)proof of ownership of the facility or[ written approval from the owner to 
cultivate psilocybin on the premises] a signed, written statement from the owner 
of the property acknowledging that the owner understands that psyilocybin 
products will be produced or tested on the premises. 
 
 The Department states that this revision is meant to substitute a written acknowledgement 
from the property owner for the previously proposed “approval” from the owner. 
 
 The Department proposes revising the rule regarding the restriction on transferability of 
permits found in 7.35.2.9(C) NMAC as follows: 
 
Permits non-transferable: A permit shall not be transferred by sale, assignment, or 
otherwise, except as approved by the department upon the death of a sole proprietor. 
 
 The Department states that this revision is designed to create an exception to the general 
prohibition against the transfer of permits in the limited circumstance where a permittee who is a 
sole proprietor dies. In this situation , they only way the entity could survive and continue operation 
is through a transfer of the permit in its entirety.  
 
 The Department proposes a revision to 7.35.2.19(E) NMAC, “Total Yeast and Molds” 
Action Level from >20CFU to >1,000 CF, based on the recommended limit set by the American 
Herbal Products Association for yeasts and molds in powdered dried food products. 
 
 The Department proposes a revision to 7.35.2.19(F) NMAC to specify that “Water content 
shall be less than 10%” in order to pass water content testing.  The Department states that this 
revision proposes to set a cap on the maximum water content that a psilocybin product can contain 
===== PAGE 36 =====
36 
 
before it can be released for sale or distribution; the Department believes a 10% cap is reasonable 
and will suffice to reduce bacterial growth. 
 
 The Department proposes to revise 7.35.2.26(B) to specify that a courtesy copy of a notice 
immediate suspension or notice of proposed disciplinary action will be transmitted to the permittee 
via e-mail, in addition to service via certified U.S. postal mail. The Department states that this was 
meant to be included in the proposed rule, but was accidentally omitted.   
 
 Finally, in its List of Anticipated Revisions, the Department states that it proposes to revise 
7.35.2.19 NMAC Table 4 to modify certain pesticide testing action levels as follows: 
 
• Abamectin from level 0.01 to 0.15; 
• Bifenthrin from level 0.05 to 0.1; and 
• Metrafenone from level 0.05 to 0.5. 
 
The Department states that these three revisions are necessary to correct typographical errors and 
more closely reflect relevant standards used for cannabis testing.   
  
Analysis and Recommendation 
 
In conducting the analysis of the issues in this rule promulgation process, the Hearing 
Officer was guided by New Mexico case law which provides instruction in determining whether a 
rule adopted by an administrative agency will be upheld.  This guidance ca n be found  in New 
Mexico Mining Association v. New Mexico Mining Commission, 1996-NMCA-098, 122 N.M. 332 
at ¶ 15, which states as follows: 
 
Rules adopted by an administrative agency will be upheld if they are in harmony 
with the agency’s express statutory authority or spring from those powers that may 
be fairly implied therefrom. [Citations omitted.] Similarly, regulations adopted by 
an agency are presumed to be valid if they are shown to be reasonably consistent 
with the statutory purposes of the agency. [Citation omitted.] 
 
See also Rio Grande Chapter of Sierra Club v. New Mexico Mining Comm’n, 2003-NMSC-005, 
133 N.M. 97 at ¶25.  
 
The Hearing Officer has reviewed the exhibits and the public comments at hearing 
regarding the proposed new rule 7.35.2 NMAC. Further, the Hearing Officer has reviewed the 
New Mexico Psilocybin Act, giving a particular focus to NMSA 1978, §26-2D-7(A) from the New 
Mexico Medical Psilocybin Act, which states as follows:  
A.  The "medical use of psilocybin program" is created in the department.   In 
developing the program, the department shall establish: 
(1)       appropriate qualifying conditions for  qualified patients; 
(2)       necessary initial and ongoing training for producers and clinicians; 
===== PAGE 37 =====
37 
 
(3)       treatment protocols, including patient selection criteria, medical service 
standards, dosage standards and approved settings for administration of psilocybin 
to patients; 
(4)       safety protocols for producing psilocybin from mushrooms, transporting, 
storing and handling psilocybin and treating patients; 
(5)       other best practices for producers and clinicians;  
(6)       requirements for data collection to evaluate the program and the use of best 
practices by producers and clinicians; and 
(7)       other requirements, restrictions and limitations promulgated by the 
department to ensure an efficacious program. 
 The provisions outlined in the foregoing statute give the Department broad authority to 
establish the Medical Psilocybin Program and to establish the rules that govern it. Extensive public 
comments were provided to the Department in this rule promulgation process. The written 
response of the Department to those comments indicates that this has been a thorough rulemaking 
process, and that the Department has given careful con sideration to the development of the new 
rule, the input from the public regarding th e new rule, and a willingness to amend the proposed 
rule even prior to its final adoption. The Department has made the effort to consider the psilocybin 
programs of other states —Oregon and Colorado—and consulted with professional organizations 
such as American Herbal Products Association, and the National Advisory Committee on 
Microbiological Criteria.  The Department has also consulted with the USDA. Further, it has 
consulted scientific studies, such as the “Stability of psilocybin and its four analogs in the biomass 
of the psychotropic mushroom Psilocybin cubensis,” by Gotvaldova, Hajkova, et al.  
 
 The Department has, as indicated above, submitted a written List of Anticipated Revisions, 
which arose out of comments from the public. It has also indicated in its written response to public 
comments that it intends to make further revisions to the proposed rules based upon the comments 
received from the public. It has also indicated that comments from the public may result in new 
rules or newly amended rules in the future.  
 
  The May 13, 2026  written response to public comments that was submitted to the 
Department supports the conclusion that the Department made the effort to consider the 
recommendations of the public with care and attention, as well as a willingness to adopt the 
recommendations that were made by the public where appropriate. The Hearing Officer adopts the 
responses of the Department to public comment, and, consequently, incorporates them into this 
Analysis. 
 
 The provisions found in the new rule, with the amendments found in the List of Anticipated 
Revisions, and in the May 13, 2026 written response of the Department,  are consistent with the 
requirements of the foregoing statute. The Hearing Officer recommends that the Cabinet Secretary 
find that the proposed new rule , with amendments, is consistent with the authority granted to the 
agency in rulemaking and consistent with the statutory purposes of the agency set forth in the 
===== PAGE 38 =====
38 
 
statute. The proposed new rule is in harmony with the agency’s express statutory authority or 
spring from those powers that may be fairly implied therefrom. See New Mexico Mining 
Association v. New Mexico Mining Commission, 1996-NMCA-098, 122 N.M. 332 at ¶ 15. The 
Hearing Officer, having reviewed the record in this proceeding in full, recommends that the 
Secretary find that the provisions of the proposed new rule 7.35.2 NMAC are in harmony with, 
and/or spring from the authority given to the Department under the relevant statutes.  
 
Recommendations 
 
 Based upon the foregoing, the Hearing Officer recommends that the Secretary adopt the 
proposed new rule 7.35.2 NMAC (“Medical Psilocybin Producer and Laboratory Requirements”) 
by the Department, as set forth in DOH Exhibit No. 2 , tog ether with the amendments to the 
proposed rule found in the List of Anticipated Revisions (DOH Exh ibit No. 8), and the 
amendments found in the Department’s Written Response to Public Comments (DOH Exhibit No. 
10.)  
 
 
 
Original Signed by Craig T. Erickson on 5/26/26 
              
Craig T. Erickson      Date 
Hearing Officer 
