[PAGE 1]
 
 
Draft for Medical Psilocybin Advisory Board Meeting on 7-9-2026. 
 
TITLE 7 HEALTH 
CHAPTER 35 MEDICAL PSILOCYBIN 
PART 3  PATIENTS, CLINICIANS, PRACTITIONERS, FACILITATORS, APPROVED 
LOCATIONS, AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS 
 
7.35.3.1  ISSUING AGENCY:  New Mexico department of health. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.2  SCOPE:  This rule applies to all patients, practitioners, clinicians, facilitators, healing centers and 
other approved locations, and educational programs who participate and seek to participate in the New Mexico 
medical psilocybin program. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.3  STATUTORY AUTHORITY:  This rule is promulgated pursuant to the following statutory 
authorities: the New Mexico Department of Health Act, Subsection E of Section 9 -7-6 NMSA 1978; and the 
Medical Psilocybin Act, Section 26-2D-7, NMSA 1978. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.4  DURATION:  Permanent. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.5  EFFECTIVE DATE:  XXXX,XX,2026, unless a later date is cited at the end of a section. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.6  OBJECTIVE:  The objective of this rule is to adopt rules governing the enrollment of qualified 
patients and the certification of certifying clinicians, practitioners, facilitators, and approved locations, in accordance 
with the Medical Psilocybin Act at Sections 26-2D-1 through -11, NMSA 1978.  
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PSILOCYBIN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS:  
 A. Application requirements: An applicant seeking certification as a psilocybin educational 
program shall submit a complete application through the electronic system designated by the department. A 
complete application shall include, at minimum, the following: 
(1) An organizational chart depicting the applicant’s governance and operational structure ; 
 (2) Proof of registration with the New Mexico secretary of state; 
 (3) Proof of registration with the New Mexico taxation and revenue department; 
 (4) Copies of any required business licenses issued by applicable New Mexico cities or counties; 
 (5) A certificate of occupancy for each location in New Mexico where the program will conduct 
operations; 
 (6) Any additional documentation reasonably requested by the department to verify compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, or ordinances; 
 (7) A list of all owners or members of the board of directors, including corresponding contact 
information; 
 (8) Primary program contact information, including name, physical address, telephone number, and 
email address; 
 (9) A record retention plan; 
 (10) A safety and emergency response plan appropriate to the program’s operational settings ; 
 (11) A written outline of the program’s complaint and grievance procedures available to students; 
 (12) A signed consent authorizing the department to publicly list the program’s contact information and 
website, if certification is granted; 
 (13) A list of all instructors, accompanied by curricula vitae or résumés demonstrating collective 
expertise sufficient to meet all required curriculum areas; 
 (14) A copy of the curriculum to be utilized by the program, including a brief description 
demonstrating how the curriculum satisfies the department’s curriculum requirements; 
[PAGE 2]
 
 
 (15) Copies of all course syllabi and a web address at which the program will publicly maintain 
updated syllabi for prospective students; 
 (16) A plan describing how the program will ensure transparency in the disclosure of all student fees ; 
 (17) A plan demonstrating how the program will ensure that enrolled students complete all required 
components and graduate within two years of enrollment; 
 (18) A signed consent authorizing the department to publicly list the curriculum and syllabi submitted 
with the application, if approval is granted; 
 (19) A third‑party evaluation report assessing the organization and curriculum and demonstrating that 
the program meets the requirements for medical psilocybin educational programs; 
 (20) Proof of established arrangements with healing centers or other department‑approved locations for 
student practicum placements; and 
 (21) Documentation demonstrating that, no later than June 30, 2027, the program will employ at least 
two faculty members who hold current practitioner or facilitator certificates issued by the department. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  PSILOCYBIN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS; REQUIRED REPORTING AND 
CURRICULUM APPROVAL; RELINQUISHMENT OF CERTIFICATE: 
 A. Required reporting of updates: An approved psilocybin educational program shall notify the 
department, through the department-approved electronic system designated by the department, of any of the 
following changes, and shall not implement the change until written approval is issued by the department: 
  (1) Any revision to the program’s curriculum; revised curricula shall be submitted to the 
department for review and may not be implemented until the department grants approval; 
  (2) Any change in ownership, including changes in controlling interest or organizational 
structure; 
  (3) Any change in physical locations utilized for instruction or educational activi ties; 
  (4) Any modification, termination, or addition of practicum site agreements ; and 
  (5) Any change in instructional staff, including submission of curricula vitae or r ésumés for 
all newly added instructors. 
 B. Psilocybin educational program curriculum approval process: Applicants shall submit a 
complete application packet for curriculum approval through the electronic system designated by the department. 
The department shall notify the applicant, through the department-approved electronic system, whether the 
application is approved or denied. If approved, the approval shall take effect on the date of the notice and shall 
remain valid for two years. If denied, the department shall issue written notice stating the basis for the denial. An 
applicant whose application has been denied may resubmit a corrected application within six months.  No applicant 
may resubmit an application more than two times following an initial denial.  An applicant may appeal a denial in 
accordance with the appeals process established in this rule. 
 C. Application denial: The Department may deny an application if: 
  (1) The submitted curriculum does not comply with the Department’s required curric ulum 
standards; 
  (2) The applicant fails to submit all required documentation or submits incomplete materials; 
or 
  (3) Program instructors, staff, or representatives have made false or misleading statements to 
the Department, to students, or to the public. 
 D. Application for renewal of educational program certification: An applicant seeking renewal of 
its psilocybin educational program certification shall submit a complete renewal application packet through the 
department-approved electronic system no more than 60 days and no less than 30 days prior to the certification’s 
expiration date. 
 E. Voluntary relinquishment of certification: A psilocybin educational program may voluntarily 
relinquish its certification at any time, for any reason, including but not limited to the cessation of student 
enrollment or instructional activities, by submitting written notice of relinquishment to the department through the 
method prescribed by the department. Upon receipt of such notice, the department shall terminate the certification 
effective on the date specified by the program or, if no date is specified, on the date the notice is received.  
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
[PAGE 3]
 
 
7.35.3.X  PSILOCYBIN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS, HEALING CENTERS, OTHER 
APPROVED LOCATIONS; EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT BY THE DEPARTMENT: 
 A. Authority to conduct assessments: The department or its designee may conduct remote or 
on‑site assessments of a psilocybin education program, healing center or other approved location, with or without 
prior notice, during normal business hours, for the purpose of determining compliance with the Medical Psilocybin 
Act and this rule. Exception: the department or its designee may not interrupt or disturb patient sessions without 
prior written consent from the patient(s) except in emergency situations.  
 B. Curriculum implementation review: Educational Program assessments may include review and 
observation of the current curriculum, instructional delivery, and related educational activities to determine whether 
the curriculum is being implemented with fidelity and in accordance with department requirements.  
 C. Record retention review: Educational Program assessments shall include a review of the 
program’s record retention plan and verification the plan is being followed in accordance with all applicable 
requirements. 
 D. Additional documentation: The department may require any additional documentation it deems 
reasonably necessary to verify compliance with the Medical Psilocybin Act, this rule, or any other applicable law or 
regulation. A psilocybin educational program, healing center or other approved location shall provide requested 
documentation within the timeframe specified by the department. 
 E. Revocation of certification:  The department may revoke the certification of a psilocybin educational 
program, healing center or other approved location that does not meet the requirements of the Medical Psilocybin 
Act or this rule, or that fails during an assessment to demonstrate ongoing compliance. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  REQUIREMENTS FOR THIRD-PARTY EVALUATORS OF EDUCATIONAL 
PROGRAMS: 
 A. General requirements: A psilocybin educational program shall engage a qualified third-party 
evaluation team to conduct the evaluations required under this rule. The evaluation team shall consist of no fewer 
than three individuals who collectively meet all competency requirements set forth in this section. 
 B. Minimum qualifications: Each evaluator shall possess at least three years of professional experience 
in one or more of the following fields, and the evaluation team as a whole shall demonstrate expertise covering all 
listed domains: 
  (1) Psilocybin therapy practice, supported by a master’s or doctoral degree in counseling, 
therapy, social work, public health, behavioral health, or a closely related field;  
  (2) Medical or research practice, supported by a master’s or doctoral degree in medi cine, 
pharmacy, nursing, or another related clinical or scientific field; and 
  (3) Educational curriculum development and evaluation, supported by a master’s or doctoral 
degree in education, educational psychology, or a closely related field. 
 C. Conflict-of-interest prohibitions: 
  (1) All evaluators shall be free from actual or perceived conflicts of interest regarding the 
organization or curriculum under review. 
  (2) The following conflicts, at minimum, shall disqualify an individual from serving  as an 
evaluator: 
   (a) Participation in the design, development, or teaching of the curriculum being 
evaluated; or 
   (b) Holding a financial interest in, receiving compensation from, or serving in any 
governance or advisory capacity with the program or organization being evaluated.  
 D. Confidentiality and impartiality: Prior to initiating evaluation activities, each evaluator shall 
sign a confidentiality and impartiality agreement affirming their obligation to maintain confidentiality, avoid bias , 
and act independently in carrying out evaluation responsibilities. 
 E. Evaluation report requirements: The evaluation team shall prepare a written evaluation report 
and shall submit the report simultaneously to both the psilocybin educational program and the department. The 
report shall include, at a minimum: 
   (a) A description of each evaluator’s professional qualifications and experience 
relevant to the required evaluation domains; 
   (b) Copies of all signed conflict-of-interest, confidentiality, and impartiality 
agreements; 
   (c) An assessment of the reliability, validity, and fidelity of implementation of the 
[PAGE 4]
 
 
curriculum; 
   (d) An assessment of the reliability, validity, and fidelity of implementation of 
student competency evaluations, including examinations, assessments, and instructor observational feedback;  
   (e) Recommendations for corrective actions or improvements, where applicable;  
   (f) Performance evaluations of all faculty members participating in the program; 
and 
   (g) A review and evaluation of any reported student grievances related to program 
instruction, curriculum implementation, or student assessment processes. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFYING CLINICIANS, 
PRACTITIONERS, AND FACILITATORS: 
 A. Requirements for certifying clinician, practitioner, and facilitator certification: All certifying 
clinicians, practitioners, and facilitators who engage in medical psilocybin services must complete a New Mexico 
educational module created or approved by the department prior to applying for certification, which shall include at 
a minimum: 
  (1) Education on the New Mexico Medical Psilocybin Act; 
  (2) An overview of the use of psilocybin in a therapeutic model in New Mexico; 
  (3) Education on the social, cultural and historical aspects of psilocybin use, including 
traditional use by native American and other populations in New Mexico; 
  (4) Spiritual, existential, religious, and theological (SERT) aspects of psilocybin therapy; and 
  (5) Evaluation to demonstrate competency in the above areas. 
 B. Requirements for initial certifying clinician certification: All certifying clinicians shall 
complete a certifying clinician module consisting of a minimum of 8 didactic hours prior to applying for 
certification, which shall include: 
  (1) Psilocybin action, interactions, and pharmacology; 
  (2) Overview of certifying clinician responsibilities; 
  (3) 42 CFR Part 2; 
  (4) Education on diagnosis of qualifying conditions; 
  (5) Determining medical clearance for psilocybin therapy; 
  (6) Psychedelic emergencies/urgencies and medical monitoring; 
  (7) Research and data collection requirements; and 
  (8) Evaluation to demonstrate competency in the above areas. 
 C. Requirements for initial practitioner and facilitator certification: All practitioners and 
facilitators shall complete a psilocybin therapy module consisting of a minimum of 25 didactic hours, prior to 
applying for certification, which shall include: 
  (1) Overview of practitioner/facilitator responsibilities including how to work as part of a 
care team; 
  (2) 42 CFR Part 2; 
  (3) Psychedelic emergencies/urgencies/medical monitoring; 
  (4) Psilocybin actions, interactions and pharmacology; 
  (5) Set and setting; 
(6) Ethics in therapeutic settings; 
  (7) Patient-centered approaches and care; 
  (8) Preparation and integration sessions; 
  (9) Administration session; 
  (10) Psychedelic de-escalation techniques; 
  (11) Self-care; 
  (12) Research and data collection requirements; 
  (13) A simulated patient experience of no less than 5 hours in addition to the 25 didactic 
hours; and 
  (14) Evaluation to demonstrate competency in the above areas. 
 D. Additional requirements for initial facilitator certification All facilitators shall complete a 
facilitator-specific training module consisting of a minimum of 5 didactic hours, prior to applying for certification, 
which shall include: 
  (1) Peer facilitation ethics; 
[PAGE 5]
 
 
(2) How to work as part of a care team; 
(3) What it means to be present with a patient; 
(3) For informational purposes: basic concepts of psychotherapy; and 
  (4) Evaluation to demonstrate competency in the above areas. 
 E. Additional requirements for initial practitioner certification All practitioners shall complete a 
module on psychedelic and psilocybin therapeutic approaches consisting of a minimum of 5 didactic hours, prior to 
applying for certification, which shall include: 
  (1) Education of psilocybin specific therapeutic modalities and non-ordinary states of 
consciousness; 
  (2) How to work as part of a care team; 
(3) Evaluation to demonstrate competency in the above areas. 
 
F. Practitioner and facilitator trainings: All practitioners and facilitators shall also complete and 
maintain proof of current certification prior to applying for medical psilocybin certification in:  
(1) The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); and, 
a. Basic Life Support (BLS); or 
b. Both Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External Defibrillator 
(AED) certification;  
 G. Continuing education requirements for certifying clinicians, practitioners and facilitators: 
  (1) Certifying clinicians: Certifying clinicians shall complete a minimum of 8 hours of 
continuing medical education credits specific to psychedelic medicine or therapy every 2 years. 
  (2) Practitioners and facilitators: Practitioners and facilitators shall complete a minimum 
of 20 hours of continuing education credits specific to psychedelic therapy and practice every two years.  
Practitioners and facilitators shall also keep current Basic Life Support, or Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and 
Automated External Defibrillation certification in addition to the 20 hours of continuing education credits. 
[7.35.2.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  PRACTITIONER AND FACILITATOR PRACTICUM REQUIREMENTS:   
 A. Minimum practicum hours; same-day therapy sessions: Practitioners and facilitators shall 
participate in supervised practice training, otherwise referred to as a practicum. The practicum shall consist of a 
minimum of 100 hours of supervised practice training for facilitators and 120 hours for practitioners and must be 
completed prior to applying for certification. Students shall participate in a minimum of 80 hours of administration 
and same-day therapy sessions, where students are provided the opportunity to experience, observe, or conduct 
supervised facilitation of administration and therapy sessions in-person with a minimum of 14 different patients over 
a minimum of eight different administration and same-day therapy sessions with the following criteria:  
  (1) A minimum of six different patients during a minimum of six individual administration 
and same-day therapy sessions; and 
  (2) A minimum of two different group administration and same-day therapy sessions with 
four or more patients in each group administration and same-day therapy session.   
 B. Minimum practicum hours; in-person and post-integration therapy sessions: Students shall 
participate in a minimum of 20 hours of in-person preparation and post-integration therapy sessions, where students 
are provided the opportunity to experience, observe, or conduct (when licensure allows) preparatory or integrative 
therapy sessions. This shall include a minimum of six different patients during individual sessions. This shall 
include at least one group preparatory and one group post-integration session with a minimum of four or more 
patients.   
 C. Practitioner supervision hours: Practitioners shall complete an additional minimum of 20 hours 
as a practitioner supervising facilitators during in-person administration and same-day therapy sessions, which shall 
include a minimum of two different patients during individual administration and same-day therapy sessions, and a 
minimum of one group administration and same-day therapy sessions with a minimum of four or more patients in 
the group.   
 D. Practicum location: All practicum hours shall take place in an approved healing center or other 
approved location.  
 E. Practicum standards: Practicum supervisors and students shall follow these rules as they apply 
to facilitation and therapy, including but not limited to standards for HIPAA and Hi-TEC confidentiality and limits 
on scope of practice. 
[PAGE 6]
 
 
 G. Waiver of practicum requirements: The department may otherwise waive, temporarily suspend, 
or reduce the practicum requirements for individuals applying for certification, in order to facilitate the certifying of 
individuals trained by other governmental approved programs to build the initial infrastructure of the program  
 H. Waiver of practicum hours requirement for applications received by June 30, 2027: An 
application for certification that is received by the department by June 30, 2027 from someone who has completed 
the didactic requirements after June 20, 2025 through an educational program subsequently certified by the 
department by June 30, 2027 shall not be required to complete the full practicum hours otherwise required by New 
Mexico, but shall demonstrate completion of at least 40 hours of contact time with a minimum of two separate 
individual sessions or two separate group sessions for preparation, administration, and integrative therapy with 
psilocybin treatment conducted in any jurisdiction where psilocybin therapy is legal. 
 
 
[7.35.2.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS; MENTORING REQUIREMENTS; RECORD -KEEPING: 
 A. Mentoring requirements: All educational programs shall provide each practitioner and facilitator 
student with a minimum of 10 hours of mentoring sessions after graduation and after practicum hours are completed. 
The purpose of the mentoring sessions is to allow new graduates to consult with the educational program faculty 
regarding cases, patients, situations, and how they handle them.  These mentoring sessions may not have additional 
associated charges beyond the cost of the educational program itself. The 10 hours are valid for up to 12 months 
after practicum hours are completed. If students require for more than 10 hours of mentoring sessions, this will be at 
the purview of the educational program and may have an additional associated cost.  
 B. Record keeping: Educational programs shall maintain the following records for a minimum of 
five years: 
  (1) All course syllabi; and 
  (2) Enrollment records, including but not limited to the:  
   (a) Name of each student; 
   (b) Date of start and completion for each student; 
   (c) Examination results for each student;  
   (d) Dates, locations, and number of patients seen during each of the practicum 
sessions; and 
   (e) Names of facilitators supervised by practitioner students during practicum. 
 C. Educational programs shall upload the completion certificate into the department approved online 
portal.  
 D. Educational programs shall provide current and former students their records upon request.  
 E. Educational programs shall provide records required to be maintained under this rule to the 
department upon request. These records must be maintained for five years.  An educational program shall ensure 
that records are maintained in accordance with applicable law. 
[7.35.2.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
 
7.35.3.X  RECIPROCITY FOR CERTIFYING CLINICIANS, PRACTITIONERS AND 
FACILITATORS: 
 A. Applications for reciprocal certification: Individuals who have completed training in a current 
psilocybin educational program that has been approved by a state, U.S. territory or commonwealth, a federally-
recognized tribe, pueblo, or Indian nation in New Mexico or elsewhere in the United States, or the government of 
another nation, which has been verified and approved by the department as meeting the minimum didactic 
requirements to be able to provide psilocybin treatment and therapy, may apply for certification to be either a 
certifying clinician, practitioner or a facilitator in New Mexico. Applicants for reciprocity as a certifying clinician, 
practitioner, or facilitator shall complete the following for New Mexico certification: 
  (1) Provide documentation of completion of the government approved psilocybin educational 
program from another jurisdiction; 
  (2) Complete the New Mexico module; and 
  (3) Complete the required practicum or demonstrate completion of a practicum or practice 
with the minimum number of patients and hours as required in New Mexico.  If a portion of the practicum hours 
have been completed in another jurisdiction and are able to be verified by the department, the remaining required 
[PAGE 7]
 
 
practicum hours may be completed through a New Mexico approved educational program  so long as the total hours 
and minimum number of patients required by the New Mexico program are met .  For the practitioner certification, 
the reciprocal applicant will need to ensure they complete the 20 supervisory practicum hours in New Mexico. 
 B. Waiver of practicum hours requirement for applications received by December 31, 2026: An 
applicant for reciprocity whose application is received by the department by December 31, 2026 shall not be 
required to complete the full practicum hours required by New Mexico, but shall demonstrate completion of at least 
40 hours of contact time with a minimum of two separate individual sessions or two separate group sessions for 
preparation, administration, and integrative therapy with psilocybin treatment. 
 C. Waiver of practicum requirements: The department may otherwise waive, temporarily suspend, 
or reduce the practicum requirements for individuals applying for reciprocity, in order to facilitate the certifying of 
individuals trained by other governmental approved programs to build the initial infrastructure of the program.  
 D. Requirements for reciprocal recognition of government-approved psilocybin education 
program: For another government-approved psilocybin educational program to be accepted for the purpose of 
granting reciprocal certification to a practitioner, certifying clinician, or facilitator, the applicant shall submit the 
following: 
  (1) Documentation that the program is included on the list of department-approved reciprocal 
psilocybin educational programs from other jurisdictions, which shall include medical psilocybin educational 
programs approved by the states of Oregon or Colorado; or  
  (2) Documentation that the psilocybin educational program has been approved as a medical 
psilocybin educational program by another governmental agency or authority, which shall also include the 
educational program curriculum, and proof that the curriculum is substantially equivalent to the didactic 
requirements applicable to New Mexico educational programs. 
 E. Two-year approval of reciprocal psilocybin educational programs: Department approval of 
reciprocal psilocybin educational programs that is based on approval from another jurisdiction is valid for up to two 
years from the date of approval; provided that the department’s approval shall terminate upon revocation, 
suspension, or expiration in the original jurisdiction. Reciprocal psilocybin educational programs may request a 
curriculum review up to 30 days prior to their expiration.  After review by the department and approval of the 
didactic curriculum, the program’s approval may be renewed for two more years.  
[7.35.2.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
 
Testing out of the didactic portion of the required curriculum 
• Approved educational programs shall offer an option for a student to take the test for each module 
without attending the lessons or classes for the module, except the New Mexico Module; 
• The cost to take the test for each module cannot be more than one-fourth (¼) of the normal price 
of each of the educational modules;  
• If the student receives a passing grade for a module test, they will have been considered to have 
completed the module; 
• If a student does not receive a passing grade for a module test, they will not have completed the 
module;  
• The educational program may allow students to re-take the test without attending the lessons or 
classes for the modules at their discretion; 
• Students who utilize this option must still complete all other requirements for the educational 
program including the New Mexico Module, certifications, simulated patient, and practicum requirements 
to graduate from the educational program. 
 
Certifying Clinician, Practitioner, and Facilitator prohibition: 
• A patient may not be certified or treated by a certifying clinician, practitioner, or facilitator who is 
related to the patient within the second degree of consanguinity or the first degree of affinity, 
including a spouse, child, stepchild, parent, step-parent, sibling, grandparent, mother-in-law, 
father-in-law, son-in law, or daughter-in-law of the patient. 
• A person who holds an ownership interest in a certificant shall not hold an ownership interest in a 
permittee. 
Application Process 
[PAGE 8]
 
 
• An applicant must submit a completed application packet through the electronic system 
designated by the department;  
• The department will notify an applicant through the electronic system designated by the 
department if their application is approved or denied.  
o If the application is approved, the approval is effective on the date of notice and 
will be valid for two (2) years. 
o If the department denies an application, it will provide notice of the denial  
o If the application is denied, the applicant may re-submit their application within 
six months; and, 
o Applicants may not re-submit their application more than twice; and  
o Applicants may appeal a denial utilizing the process outlined in this rule. 
• The department shall deny an application if: 
o Not all required items have been submitted or are not complete; or, 
▪ Insufficient or expired licensure; 
▪ Missing or inadequate documentation of certification, education or 
practicum requirements; 
o The applicant has made false or misleading statements in the application or to 
the department or the public; 
• For renewal, applicants must complete a new applicant packet through the department-
approved electronic system no more than 60-days and no less than 30-days prior to the expiration 
of their certification.  
• Certificants may voluntarily relinquish their certification at any time and for any reason, 
by providing written notice to the department. 
• Certificants must provide and consent to having contact information with a minimum of 
name, phone number, and email address published publicly. 
 
Certifying Clinician: 
• The requirements an applicant must meet and submit in a completed application packet include: 
• Completed W-9 form  
• Documentation of current NM professional license (e.g. MD, NP); 
• Documentation of completion of the department required Certifying Clinician training       
requirements; 
• Documentation that they have tested out of the didactic portion of the required curriculum; 
• Documentation of continuing education requirements; 
• Attestation they are not a registered sex offender and the department will deny or revoke a 
certification for anyone who is a registered sex offender; 
• Certificate or verification of results NM Controlled Substance number; 
• Personal data:  
o Date of birth 
o NM Driver’s License or state ID 
o Phone/email/mailing address 
o Legal names 
o Affirmation and consent forms  
  
Practitioner: 
• The requirements an applicant must meet and submit in a completed application packet include:  
• Completed W-9 form 
• Documentation of current professional license to practice in New Mexico (e.g. PSY, LSW, 
LCSW); 
• Documentation of completion of department-approved practitioner training program 
• Documentation that they have tested out of the didactic portion of the required curriculum 
• Documentation of completion of the department-approved practicum requirements; 
• Documentation of current: 
▪ Basic Life Support (BLS); or 
[PAGE 9]
 
 
▪ Both Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External Defibrillator (AED) 
certification; 
• Documentation of current HIPAA certification 
• Attestation they are not a registered sex offender and the department will deny or revoke a 
certification for anyone who is a registered sex offender; 
• Personal data: 
o Date of birth 
o NM Driver’s License or state ID 
o Phone/email/mailing address 
o Legal name 
o Affirmation and consent forms 
Facilitator: 
• The requirements an applicant must meet and submit in a completed application packet include:  
• Documentation of completion of the department-approved facilitator training program 
• Documentation that they have tested out of the didactic portion of the required curriculum 
• Documentation of completion of the department-approved practicum requirements; 
• Documentation of current:  
▪ Basic Life Support (BLS); or 
▪ Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External Defibrillation (AED) 
certification; 
• Documentation of current HIPAA certification; 
• Attestation they are not a registered sex offender and the department will deny or revoke a 
certification for anyone who is a registered sex offender; 
• Personal data: 
o Date of birth 
o NM Driver’s License or state ID 
o Phone/email/mailing address 
o Legal name 
o Affirmation and consent forms 
Reciprocal Practitioner or Facilitator: 
• The applicant must submit a completed application packet including: 
• Documentation of completion of a psilocybin educational program from another governmental 
jurisdiction; and, 
o Provide documentation the psilocybin educational program has been approved by another 
governmental agency or authority; by, 
▪ Their previous inclusion on the list of department approved reciprocal 
psilocybin educational programs from other jurisdictions; or 
▪ If not previously approved by the department: 
• Provide documented approval from another governmental agency; and 
• Provide a curriculum equivalency for the didactic educational portion 
of the program between New Mexico and the other program. 
• Documentation of active Practitioner or Facilitator or equivalent licensure or certification in 
another jurisdiction; 
• Documentation of minimum core practicum hours and NM-required practicum hours; 
• Documentation of completion of NM-specific training module; 
• Verification of: 
▪ Current Basic Life Support (BLS); or 
▪ Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External Defibrillation (AED) 
certification; 
•        Documentation of current HIPAA certification; 
• Attestation they are not a registered sex offender and the department will deny or revoke a 
certification for anyone who is a registered sex offender; 
• Personal data as appropriate: 
o Date of birth 
[PAGE 10]
 
 
o NM Driver’s License or state ID 
o Phone/email/mailing address 
o Legal name 
o Affirmation and consent forms 
 
Patient Application and Record: 
• An applicant must submit a completed application packet through the electronic system designated 
by the department: 
• Documentation of diagnosis of qualifying condition by a certified Diagnosing Clinician 
• Personal data: 
▪ Date of birth 
▪ Phone/email/mailing address 
▪ Legal name 
▪ Affirmation and consent forms 
• Certifying Clinicians, Practitioners, and Facilitators shall utilize the electronic system designated 
by the department to record information including: 
o Diagnosis qualifying the patient 
o Attestations about evaluating and treating the patient 
o Date and type of service for: 
▪ Evaluation 
▪ Preparation session 
▪ Administration: 
• Including approved location 
• Unique Identification Number of medicine used 
• Dosage 
▪ Initial Integrative Therapy Session 
o Any adverse events 
o Information required for the Equity and Access Fund 
• (2) In order to certify a patient, a certifying clinician must have an actual clinician- 
• client relationship with the patient. A certifying clinician shall conduct an in-person physical or 
• mental evaluation of the applicant or qualified patient prior to issuing a certi fication. A certifying clinician 
may only issue a patient certification on the basis of an evaluation conducted via telemedicine if the  
certifying clinician has previously examined the patient in person within the previous 6 months. 
• (3) A certifying clinician may be prohibited from certifying patients for: 
• (a) failure to comply with any provision of this rule; 
• (b) falsification of any material or information submitted to the department;  
• (c) threatening or harming a patient, an employee of a producer or laboratory, a clinician, a practitioner, or 
an employee of the department; or 
• (d) any determination by the clinician’s licensing body that the clinician has engaged in unprofessional or 
dishonorable conduct. 
 
 
7.34.3.x  DENIAL OF AN INITIAL PATIENT APPLICATION; RECORD REVIEW: 
A.            Administrative review:  All initial applicants for patient enrollment whose application has been denied 
may request a record review from the department. 
                B.            Procedure for requesting informal administrative review: 
                                (1)           An applicant given notice of an application denial may submit a request for an 
administrative review through the electronic system designated by the department or mail a written request to the 
department.  To be effective, the request shall: 
                                             (a)           be made within 30 calendar days, as determined from the date of the denial 
notice issued by the department; 
[PAGE 11]
 
 
                                             (b) state the requestor’s name, address, and telephone 
number                                 (c)            provide a brief narrative rebutting the circumstances of the application denial 
or demonstrate that the issues which resulted in the denial have been resolved, and 
                                             (d)           if applicable, provide supplemental documentation from the applicant’s 
clinician supporting the medical condition as eligible for the program. 
                                (2)           If the applicant wishes to submit additional documentation for consideration, such 
additional documentation must be included with the request for an administrative review.  
                C.            Administrative review proceeding:  The administrative review proceeding shall be a closed 
proceeding that is limited to an administrative review of application materials and documents offered to verify 
eligibility. The administrative review proceeding is not an adjudicatory hearing, and an individual whose initial 
application for a registry identification number has been denied shall not be entitled to an adjudicatory hearing to 
contest the denial.  The administrative review shall be conducted by the administrative review committee. In cases 
where the administrative review committee finds the need for additional or clarifying information, the review 
committee shall request that the applicant supply such additional information within the time set forth in the 
committees’ request.                   
                D.            Final determination: 
                                (1)           Content and timeline:  The administrative review shall be completed, and a  decision 
setting forth the reasons for the decision and the evidence upon which the decision is based, no later than 15 
calendar days from the date that the program receives the written request for a record review. 
                                (2)           Effect:  The decision of the administrative review committee is the final decision of 
the informal administrative review proceeding. 
                                (3)           Notice:  A copy of the decision shall be issued to the applicant via certified U.S. postal 
mail and posted within the electronic system designated by the department. 
                E.            Judicial review:  Except as otherwise provided by law, there shall be no right to judicial review 
of a decision by the administrative review committee. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.x               PROHIBITIONS, RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON THE USE OF PSILOCYBIN 
BY QUALIFIED PATIENTS:  Participation in the medical psilocybin program by a qualified patient does not 
relieve the qualified patient from: 
                A.         consumption or possession of psilocybin that is not consumed or obtained as part of an 
administration session conducted in accordance with the requirements of this rule; 
 B. criminal prosecution or civil penalties for activities not authorized in this rule or the Medical 
Psilocybin Act; 
                B.            criminal prosecution or civil penalties for fraudulent representation to a law enforcement officer 
about the person’s participation in the program to avoid arrest or prosecution;  
                C.            liability for damages or criminal prosecution arising out of the operation of a vehicle while 
under the influence of psilocybin or psilocybin-derived products; or 
                D.            criminal prosecution or civil penalty for possession, distribution, transfer, or use of psilocybin or 
a psilocybin-derived product: 
                                (1)           in the workplace of the qualified patient's employment; 
                                (2)           at a public park, recreation center, youth center, or other public place; 
                                (3)           to a person not approved by the department pursuant to this rule; or 
                                (4)           outside New Mexico or attempts to obtain or transport psilocybin, or psilocybin -
derived products from outside New Mexico. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR HEALING CENTERS: An applicant seeking 
certification as a healing center shall submit a complete application through the electronic system designated by the 
department. A complete application shall include, at minimum, the following:  
 (A) An organizational chart depicting the applicant’s governance and operational structure ; 
 (B) Proof of registration with the New Mexico secretary of state; 
 (C) Proof of registration with the New Mexico taxation and revenue department; 
 (D) Copies of any required business licenses issued by applicable New Mexico cities or counties ; 
 (E) A certificate of occupancy for each location in New Mexico where the program will conduct 
operations; 
[PAGE 12]
 
 
 (F) proof of ownership of any property on which medical psilocybin administration sessions will be 
conducted, or a signed, written statement from the owner of such property acknowledging that the owner 
understands that persons will be participating in the medical psilocybin program on the premises, and what those 
persons are authorized to do within the terms of their certification; 
 (G) Any additional documentation reasonably requested by the department to verify compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, or ordinances; 
 (H) A list of all owners or members of the board of directors, including corresponding contact 
information; 
 (I) Primary program contact information, including name, physical address, telephone number, and 
email address; 
 (J) Record retention plan; 
 (K) Plan for maintaining confidentiality of patient information; 
 (L) A safety and emergency response plan appropriate to the location’s operational settings, to include 
adverse health event response and reporting; 
 (M) A written outline of the location’s complaint and grievance procedures available to patients; 
 (N) A signed consent authorizing the department to publicly list the contact information and website 
of the location, if certification is granted; 
 (O) Plan for secured storage for medical psilocybin; 
 (P) Plans for wastage of any unused medical psilocybin; 
 (Q) Plans demonstrating confidentiality of patients will be maintained within the approved location  
 (R) Plan for transparency and disclosure of fees for patients; 
 (S) Outline of complaint and grievance procedures for patients; 
 (T) Consent for contact information and websites to be listed publicly on the department website, if 
approved; 
 (U) Proof that the location has a functioning communication device which can reliably reach 
emergency medical services; and 
 (V) For a location that intends to conduct administration sessions in outdoor environments: 
  (1) A detailed description of the outdoor administration area, including identification of safe 
entrance and exits, and verification that the area is free from hazards; 
  (2) An emergency safety and response plan; 
  (3) Proof that emergency medical services can reliably be contacted from, and respond to, 
the location at which medical psilocybin administration sessions will occur; and 
  (4) If the natural environment setting is 15 minutes or more away from emergency medical 
service response or a hospital, urgent care, or other emergency medical services, then there must be at least two 
individuals present who are not receiving treatment and who have: 
   (a) Wilderness first aid certification;  
   (b) Wilderness first responder certification; or 
   (c) Licensure as a New Mexico emergency medical technician (e.g., EMT-basic, 
EMT-intermediate, EMT-paramedic).  
[7.35.3.x NMAC, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.X  Other Approved Location Requirements 
• Other approved locations include a patient’s residence or other temporary location utilized if it is 
not possible for the patient to physically go to a Healing Center for reasons of medical necessity. 
• All items must be submitted through the electronic system designated by the department 
▪ A list of the certified individuals who will be utilizing the approved location 
▪ Plan for secure transportation and, safe storage for medication 
▪ Plans for wastage of any unused medicine 
▪ A safety and emergency response plan 
▪ Plan for storage of firearms safety during and after treatment sessions 
▪ Plans demonstrating confidentiality of patients will be maintained 
▪ A description of why the location is appropriate for treatment sessions 
[PAGE 13]
 
 
 
 
General requirements for healing centers and other approved locations: 
 
An approved location shall maintain a list of all certified individuals who will be utilizing or who 
have utilized the approved location 
A healing center shall not possess firearms on their premises. 
 
• Psilocybin products may only be consumed in an approved location. 
• Only patients and certified individuals may be present during a patient treatment unless 
each patient gives prior written consent for other individuals to be present, except in 
emergency response situations.  
• Maintain a copy of a daily log of activities related to psilocybin in the approved electronic 
system designated by the department. 
• May only sell or provide psilocybin products obtained from permitted producers, and shall 
not allow the consumption of unauthorized psilocybin products during an administration 
session.  
• May not promote unregulated cultivation and processing of psilocybin products and may 
not sell unregulated psilocybin products. 
• Provide required information to the department upon request in a form and manner 
designated by the department 
• Healing centers must display or provide: 
o The healing center’s certification 
o Information regarding safe transportation after an Administration Session.  
o The healing center’s patient bill of rights and responsibilities. 
o Information explaining informed consent 
o Information on how to file a complaint with the department or other relevant 
state entities; and, 
o How to report an adverse health event to the department. 
 
Service Center Safety and Emergency Plan 
• Every approved location shall create and maintain a safety and emergency plan which: 
o Document procedures for evacuating and relocating patients to a safe location if 
the approved location becomes unsafe. 
o Document general procedures for emergency response when a patient experiences 
a medical or other emergency. 
o Document procedures for addressing disruptive conduct and patient reactions that 
do not rise to the level of requiring an emergency response.  
o Document procedures for patients who attempt to leave a treatment session 
against medical advice. 
[PAGE 14]
 
 
o Document procedures ensuring there are practitioners and facilitators present at all 
times according to the minimum patient/provider ratio required by the department.  
• Provide the emergency and safety plan to all people utilizing the location; 
• If any of the emergency procedures are utilized, there will be a documented report 
submitted within 48 hours through the electronic system which will include the adherence 
to the plan, if there were deviations or if the plan did not work as intended, what will be 
changed in the future to ensure safety of individuals in the event of future incidents. 
 
Storage 
• All psilocybin products stored at an approved location must be kept within a locked area; and it 
must be: 
o An area enclosed on all sides with permanent walls and secured with at a minimum, a 
properly installed steel door with a steel frame, and a commercial grade, non-residential 
lock; or, 
o A locked safe; or, 
• Products that require refrigeration may be stored within a locked refrigerator or freezer. 
 
Adverse Health Event Reporting:  
• Any potential adverse health event associated with medical psilocybin services shall be 
reported to the Department no later than two (2) business days after the healing center is 
notified, using the electronic system. Healing centers shall maintain records of all adverse 
health event reports in accordance with these rules. Reports must include: 
o Patient record number; 
o Unique identification number of the product(s) used; 
o Any participant reaction requiring medical attention; 
o Any challenging psychological, emotional, or behavioral reactions; 
o Any incident requiring emergency response; and, 
o Other incidents which have a negative impact on a patient(s). 
Complaint Reporting:  
• Patients or staff may lodge a complaint with the department.  
• The complaint should be in writing and submitted by U.S. mail or through the electronic 
system and include: 
o Name and contact information for the complainant which will remain confidential; 
o The nature of the complaint and any other individuals who may be involved; and, 
o The department may request additional information for investigation purposes. 
  
7.35.3.x               DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS AND APPEAL PROCESS FOR ENROLLED PATIENTS, 
APPLICANTS FOR ENROLLMENT AS A QUALIFIED PATIENT, CERTIFICANTS, AND APPLICANTS 
FOR CERTIFICATION: 
 A. Notices of disciplinary action; grounds for disciplinary action:  The department may issue a 
notice of contemplated action to deny, suspend, or revoke, or take other disciplinary action regarding a patient’s 
[PAGE 15]
 
 
enrollment as a qualified patient in the medical psilocybin program, or to deny, suspend, or revoke, or take other 
disciplinary action regarding the certification of a practitioner, certifying clinician, facilitator, healing center or other 
approved location, or an educational program (not including an educational program that is recognized through 
reciprocity).  Notice shall be served via certified U.S. postal mail. A notice shall be deemed to have been served on 
the date borne by the certified mail return receipt showing delivery or the last attempted delivery, or the refusal of 
the addressee to accept delivery, at their address of record with the program. 
 B. Grounds for disciplinary action: Disciplinary action may be imposed based on: 
   (a) violation of, or failure to comply with, any provision of this rule; 
   (b) threatening or harming a patient, practitioner, clinician, facilitator, or an 
employee of a producer, a laboratory, an educational program, a healing center or other approved location, or the 
department; 
   (c) intentionally destroying, damaging, altering, removing, or concealing evidence 
of a violation of rule or statute; attempting to do so; or asking or encouraging another person to do so;  
   (d) conduct that shows willful or reckless disregard for health or safety; 
   (e) falsification or misrepresentation of any material or information submitted to the 
department; 
   (f) failure to adhere to any attestation, acknowledgement, verification, or other 
representation made to the department; and 
   (g) failure to submit or disclose information required by this rule or otherwise 
requested by the department. 
 C. Persons who may request a hearing:  The following persons may request a hearing to contest an 
action or proposed action of the department, in accordance with this rule:  
  (1) a patient; 
  (2) a practitioner; 
  (3) a certifying clinician; 
  (4) a facilitator;  
  (5) a healing center or other approved location; 
  (6)  an educational program (not including an educational program that is recognized through 
reciprocity); and 
  (7) an applicant for enrollment or certification as any of the foregoing , whose application is 
denied for any reason other than failure to submit a completed application or failure to meet a submittal requirement 
of this rule. 
 D. Timing and content of request for hearing:  A person who has received a notice of 
contemplated action to impose a disciplinary action pursuant to this section who wishes to request a hearing 
(hereafter, “the appellant”) may do so by mailing a written request for hearing no later than 30 calendar days from 
the date that the notice of contemplated action is received.  The request shall:  
  (1) be properly addressed to the medical psilocybin program; 
  (2) be mailed to the medical psilocybin program via certified U.S. postal mail (return receipt 
requested, to verify delivery); 
  (3) state the requestor’s name, address, and telephone number; and 
  (4) include a statement of the issue(s) that the requestor considers relevant to the review of 
the action. 
 E. Hearing process: 
  (1) All hearings held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by a hearing officer 
appointed by the secretary. 
  (2) Hearings shall be conducted in Santa Fe, NM, provided that, if the appellant is located 
more than 100 miles from Santa Fe, NM, or if the parties otherwise consent, the hearing may be conducted via 
telephone or via web video conference; 
  (3) Hearings held pursuant to this section that concern patients or patient -applicants shall be 
closed to the public.  Hearings may also be closed in whole or in part, upon the request of a party, to prevent the 
disclosure of other information that is confidential under applicable law. 
  (4) The hearing shall be recorded, at a minimum, by means of sound reproduction.  
 F. Scheduling:  The department shall schedule and hold the hearing as soon as practicable, provided 
that the hearing shall not be held later than 60 calendar days from the date the department receives the request for 
hearing.  The hearing officer may extend the 60-day time period upon motion for good cause shown, or the parties 
[PAGE 16]
 
 
may extend the 60-day time period by mutual agreement.  The department shall issue a notice of hearing, which 
shall include: 
  (1) a statement of the location, date, and time of the hearing; 
  (2) a short and plain statement of the legal authority under which the hearing is to be held; 
and 
  (3) a short and plain statement of the subject of the hearing. 
 G. Presentation of evidence:  All parties shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and 
argument on all relevant issues. 
 H. Record of proceeding:  The record of the proceeding shall include the following: 
  (1) all pleadings, motions, and intermediate rulings; 
  (2) evidence and briefs received or considered; 
  (3) a statement of matters officially noticed; 
  (4) offers of proof, objections, and rulings thereon; 
  (5) proposed findings and conclusions; and 
  (6) any findings or decisions recommended by the hearing officer for adoption by the 
secretary. 
 I. Recording:  A party may request a copy of the recording of the proceedings. 
 J. Procedures and evidence: 
  (1) A party may be represented by a person licensed to practice law in New Mexico or a non-
lawyer representative, or may represent themselves. 
  (2) The rules of evidence as applied in the courts do not apply in these proceedings.  Any 
relevant evidence shall be admitted.  Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.  
  (3) The experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge of the hearing officer, 
the department or the department’s staff may be used in the evaluation of evidence. 
  (4) An appellant’s failure to appear at the hearing at the date and time noticed for the hearing 
shall, absent good cause, constitute a default. 
 K. Conduct of proceeding:  Unless the hearing officer determines that a different procedure is 
appropriate, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this rule.  The follo wing 
procedures shall apply: 
  (1) the appellant shall present an opening statement and the department may present an 
opening statement or reserve the statement until presentation of the department’s  case; 
  (2) after the opening statements, if made, the appellant shall present their case; 
  (3) upon the conclusion of the appellant’s case, the department shall present its case ; 
  (4) upon conclusion of the appellee’s case, the appellant may present rebuttal evidence; and  
  (5) after presentation of the evidence by the parties, the parties may present closing 
argument. 
 L. Burden of proof:  The appellant shall bear the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the 
evidence that the decision made or proposed by the department should be reversed or modified. 
 M. Continuances:  The hearing examiner may grant a continuance for good cause shown.  A motion 
to continue a hearing shall be made at least 10 calendar days before the hearing date.  
 N. Telephonic and web video hearings: 
  (1) Any party requesting that a hearing be conducted via telephone or web video conference 
shall do so no less than 10 business days prior to the date of the hearing . Notice of the hearing shall be given to all 
parties and shall include all necessary telephone numbers or instructions for access to the web video conference.  
  (2) The in-person presence of some parties or witnesses at the hearing shall not prevent the 
participation of other parties or witnesses by telephone or web video conference with prior approval of the hearing 
officer. 
 O. Recommended action and final decision: 
  (1) The parties may submit briefs including proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law 
for consideration by the hearing officer. 
  (2) No later than 30 calendar days after the last submission by a party, the hearing officer 
shall prepare and submit to the secretary a written recommendation of action to be taken by the secretary.  The 
recommendation may include proposed findings of fact and conclusion s of law for adoption by the secretary, and 
shall propose sustaining, modifying, or reversing the action or proposed action of the department.   
(3) The secretary shall issue a final written decision accepting or rejecting the hearing 
officer’s recommendation in whole or in part no later than 45 calendar days after receipt of the hearing 
[PAGE 17]
 
 
officer’s recommendation.  The final decision shall identify the final action taken. Service of the secretary’s 
final decision shall be made upon the appellant via certified U.S. postal mail. 
  (4) The final decision or order shall be included in a medical psilocybin program’s file 
concerning the patient, patient applicant, practitioner, practitioner applicant, clinician, clinician applicant, facilitator, 
facilitator applicant an educational program, an educational program applicant, a healing center or other approved 
location, a healing center or other approved location applicant. 
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 
 
7.35.3.x  SEVERABILITY:  The provisions of this rule are separate and severable.  If any provision of this 
rule is held to be invalid, unconstitutional, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall stay in effect.  
[7.35.3.x NMAC - N, x/xx/2026] 